


TODAY it seems to me providential that Fate should have chosen
Braunau on the Inn as my birthplace. For this little town lies on the boundary
between two German states which we of the younger generation at least have
made it our life work to reunite by every means at our disposal.German-Austria must return to the great German mother country,
and not because of any economic considerations. No, and again no: even if
such a union were unimportant from an economic point of view; yes, even
if it were harmful, it must nevertheless take place. One blood demands one
Reich. Never will the German nation possess the moral right to engage in
colonial politics until, at least, it embraces its own sons within a single
state. Only when the Reich borders include the very last German, but can
no longer guarantee his daily bread, will the moral right to acquire foreign
soil arise from the distress of our own people. Their sword will become
our plow, and from the tears of war the daily bread of future generations
will grow. And so this little city on the border seems to me the symbol
of a great mission. And in another respect as well, it looms as an admonition
to the present day. More than a hundred years ago, this insignificant place
had the distinction of being immortalized in the annals at least of German
history, for it was the scene of a tragic catastrophe which gripped the
entire German nation. At the time of our fatherland's deepest humiliation,
Johannes Palm of Nuremberg, burgher, bookseller, uncompromising nationalist
and French hater, died there for the Germany which he loved so passionately
even in her misfortune. He had stubbornly refused to denounce his accomplices
who were in fact his superiors. In thus he resembled Leo Schlageter. And
like him, he was denounced to the French by a representative of his government
An Augsburg police chief won this unenviable fame, thus furnishing an example
for our modern German officials in Herr Severing's Reich.In this little town on the Inn, gilded by the rays of German
martyrdom, Bavarian by blood, technically Austrian, lived my parents in
the late eighties of the past century; my father a dutiful civil servants
my mother giving all her being to the household, and devoted above all to
us children in eternal, loving care Little remains in my memory of this
period, for after a few years my father had to leave the little border city
he had learned to love, moving down the Inn to take a new position in Passau,
that is, in Germany proper.In those days constant moving was the lot of an Austrian customs
official. A short time later, my father was sent to Linz, and there he was
finally pensioned. Yet, indeed, this was not to mean "res"' for
the old gentleman. In his younger days, as the son of a poor cottager, he
couldn't bear to stay at home. Before he was even thirteen, the little boy
laced his tiny knapsack and ran away from his home in the Waldviertel. Despite
the at tempts of 'experienced' villagers to dissuade him, he made his way
to Vienna, there to learn a trade. This was in the fifties of the past century.
A desperate decision, to take to the road with only three gulden for travel
money, and plunge into the unknown. By the time the thirteen-year-old grew
to be seventeen, he had passed his apprentice's examination, but he was
not yet content. On the contrary. The long period of hardship, endless misery,
and suffering he had gone through strengthened his determination to give
up his trade and become ' something better. Formerly the poor boy had regarded
the priest as the embodiment of all humanly attainable heights; now in the
big city, which had so greatly widened his perspective, it was the rank
of civil servant. With all the tenacity of a young man whom suffering and
care had made 'old' while still half a child, the seventeen-year-old clung
to his new decision-he did enter the civil service. And after nearly twenty-three
years, I believe, he reached his goal. Thus he seemed to have fulfilled
a vow which he had made as a poor boy: that he would not return to his beloved
native village until he had made something of himself.His goal was achieved; but no one in the village could remember
the little boy of former days, and to him the village had grown strange.When finally, at the age of fifty-six, he went into retirement,
he could not bear to spend a single day of his leisure in idleness. Near
the Upper Austrian market village of Lambach he bought a farm, which he
worked himself, and thus, in the circuit of a long and industrious life,
returned to the origins of his forefathers.It was at this time that the first ideals took shape in my breast.
All my playing about in the open, the long walk to school, and particularly
my association with extremely 'husky' boys, which sometimes caused my mother
bitter anguish, made me the very opposite of a stay-at-home. And though
at that time I scarcely had any serious ideas as to the profession I should
one day pursue, my sympathies were in any case not in the direction of my
father's career. I believe that even then my oratorical talent was being
developed in the form of more or less violent arguments with my schoolmates.
I had become a little ringleader; at school I learned easily and at that
time very well, but was otherwise rather hard to handle. Since in my free
time I received singing lessons in the cloister at Lambach, I had excellent
opportunity to intoxicate myself with the solemn splendor of the brilliant
church festivals. As was only natural the abbot seemed to me, as the village
priest had once seemed to my father, the highest and most desirable ideal.
For a time, at least, this was the case. But since my father, for understandable
reasons, proved unable to appreciate the oratorical talents of his pugnacious
boy, or to draw from them any favorable conclusions regarding the future
of his offspring, he could, it goes without saying, achieve no understanding
for such youthful ideas. With concern he observed this conflict of nature.As it happened, my temporary aspiration for this profession
was in any case soon to vanish, making place for hopes more stated to my
temperament. Rummaging through my father's library, I had come across various
books of a military nature among them a popular edition of the Franco-German
War of 1870-7I It consisted of two issues of an illustrated periodical from
those years, which now became my favorite reading matter It was not long
before the great heroic struggle had become my greatest inner experience.
From then on I became more and more enthusiastic about everything that was
in any way connected with war or, for that matter, with soldieringBut in another respect as well, this was to assume importance
for me. For the first time, though as yet in a confused form, the question
was forced upon my consciousness: Was there a difference -and if so what
difference-between the Germans who fought these battles and other Germans?
Why hadn't Austria taken part in this war; why hadn't my father and all
the others fought?Are we not the same as all other Germans?Do we not all belong together? This problem began to gnaw at
my little brain for the first time. I asked cautious questions and with
secret envy received the answer that not every German was fortunate enough
to belong to Bismarck's Reich..This was more than I could understand.It was decided that I should go to high school.From my whole nature, and to an even greater degree from my
temperament, my father believed he could draw the inference that the humanistic
Gymnasium would represent a conflict with my talents. A Realschol seemed
to him more suitable. In this opinion he was especially strengthened by
my obvious aptitude for drawing; a subject which in his opinion was neglected
in the Austrian Gymnasiums. Another factor may have been his own laborious
career which made humanistic study seem impractical in his eyes, and therefore
less desirable. It was hus basic opinion and intention that, like himself,
his son would and must become a civil servant. It was only natural that
the hardships of his youth should enhance his subsequent achievement in
his eyes, particularly since it resulted exclusively from his own energy
and iron diligence. It was the pride of the self-made man which made him
want his son to rise to the same position in life, orJ of course, even higher
if possible, especially since, by his own industrious life, he thought he
would be able to facilitate his child's development so greatly.It was simply inconceivable to him that I might reject what
had become the content of his whole life. Consequently, my father s decision
was simple, definite, and clear; in his own eyes I mean, of course. Finally,
a whole lifetime spent in the bitter struggle for existence had given him
a domineering nature, and it would have seemed intolerable to him to leave
the final decision in such matters to an inexperienced boy, having as yet
no Sense of responsibility. Moreover, this would have seemed a sinful and
reprehensible weakness in the exercise of his proper parental authority
and responsibility for the future life of his child, and as such, absolutely
incompatible with his concept of duty.And yet things were to turn out differently.Then barely eleven years old, I was forced into opposition for
the first time in my life. Hard and determined as my father might be in
putting through plans and purposes once conceived his son was just as persistent
and recalcitrant in rejecting an idea which appealed to him not at all,
or in any case very little. I did not want to become a civil servant.Neither persuasion nor 'serious' arguments made any impression
on my resistance. I did not want to be a civil servant no, and again no.
All attempts on my father's part to inspire me with love or pleasure in
this profession by stories from his own life accomplished the exact opposite.
I yawned and grew sick to my stomach at the thought of sitting in an office,
deprived of my liberty; ceasing to be master of my own time and being compelled
to force the content of a whole life into blanks that had to be filled out.And what thoughts could this prospect arouse in a boy who in
reality was really anything but 'good' in the usual sense of the word?
School work was ridiculously easy, leaving me so much free time that the
sun saw more of me than my room. When today my political opponents direct
their loving attention to the examination of my life, following it back
to those childhood days and discover at last to their relief what intolerable
pranks this "Hitler" played even in his youth, I thank Heaven
that a portion of the memories of those happy days still remains with me.
Woods and meadows were then the battlefields on which the 'conflicts' which
exist everywhere in life were decided.In this respect my attendance at the Realschule, which now commenced,
made little difference.
But now, to be sure, there was a new conflict to be fought out.As long as my fathers intention of making me a civil servant
encountered only my theoretical distaste for the profession, the conflict
was bearable. Thus far, I had to some extent been able to keep my private
opinions to myself; I did not always have to contradict him immediately.
My own firm determination never to become a civil servant sufficed to give
me complete inner peace. And this decision in me was immutable. The problem
became more difficult when I developed a plan of my own in opposition to
my father's. And this occurred at the early age of twelve. How it happened,
I myself do not know, but one day it became clear to me that I would become
a painter, an artist. There was no doubt as to my talent for drawing; it
had been one of my father's reasons for sending me to the Realschule, but
never in all the world would it have occurred to him to give me professional
training in this direction. On the contrary. When for the first time, after
once again rejecting my father's favorite notion, I was asked what I myself
wanted to be, and I rather abruptly blurted out the decision I had meanwhile
made, my father for the moment was struck speechless.' Painter? Artist? 'He doubted my sanity, or perhaps he thought he had heard wrong
or misunderstood me. But when he was clear on the subject, and particularly
after he felt-the seriousness of my intention, he opposed it with all the
determination of his nature. His decision was extremely simple, for any
consideration of w at abilities I might really have was simply out of the
question.'Artist, no, never as long as I live!' But since his son, among
various other qualities, had apparently inherited his father' s stubbornness,
the same answer came back at him. Except, of course, that it was in the
opposite sense.And thus the situation remained on both sides. My father did
not depart from his 'Never!' And I intensified my 'Oh, yes!'The consequences, indeed, were none too pleasant. The old man
grew embittered, and, much as I loved him, so did I. Ally father forbade
me to nourish the slightest hope of ever being allowed to study art. I went
one step further and declared that if that was the case I would stop studying
altogether. As a result of such 'pronouncements,' of course, I drew the
short end; the old man began the relentless enforcement of his authority.
In the future, therefore, I was silent, but transformed my threat into reality.
I thought that once my father saw how little progress I was making at the
Realschule, he would let me devote myself to my dream, whether he liked
it or not.I do not know whether this calculation was correct. For the
moment only one thing was certain: my obvious lack of success at school.
What gave me pleasure I learned, especially everything which, in my opinion,
I should later need as a painter. What seemed to me unimportant in this
respect or was otherwise unattractive to me, I sabotaged completely. My
report cards at this time, depending on the subject and my estimation of
it, showed nothing but extremes. Side by side with 'laudable' and 'excellent,'
stood 'adequate' or even 'inadequate.' By far my best accomplishments were
in geography and even more so in history. These were my favorite subjects,
in which I led the; class.If now, after so many years, I examine the results of this period,
I regard two outstanding facts as particularly significant:First: I became a nationalistSecond: I learned to understand and grasp the meaning of history.Old Austria was a 'state of nationalities.'By and large, a subject of the German Reich, at that time at
least, was absolutely unable to grasp the significance of this fact for
the life of the individual in such a state. After the great victorious campaign
of the heroic armies in the Franco-German War, people had gradually lost
interest in the Germans living abroad; some could not, while others were
unable to appreciate their importances Especially with regard to the GermanAustrians,
the degenerate dynasty was only too frequently confused with the people,
which at the core was robust and healthy.What they failed to appreciate was that, unless the German in
Austria had really been of the best blood, he would never have had the power
to set his stamp on a nation of fifty-two million souls to such a degree
that, even in Germany, the erroneous opinion could arise that Austria was
a German state. This was an absurdity fraught with the direst consequences,
and yet a glowing testimonial to the ten million Germans in the Ostmark.
Only a handful of Germans in the Reich had the slightest conception of the
eternal and merciless struggle for the German language, German schools,
and a German way of life. Only today, when the same deplorable misery is
forced on many millions of Germans from the Reich, who under foreign rule
dream of their common fatherland and strive, amid their longing, at least
to preserve their holy right to their mother tongue, do wider circles understand
what it means to be forced to fight for one's nationality. Today perhaps
some can appreciate the greatness of the Germans in the Reich's old Ostmark,
who, with no one but themselves to depend on, for centuries protected the
Reich against incursions from the East, and finally carried on an exhausting
guerrilla warfare to maintain the German language frontier, at a time when
the Reich was highly interested in colonies, but not in its own flesh and
blood at its very doorstep.As everywhere and always, in every struggle, there were, in
this fight for the language in old Austria, three strata:The fighters, the lukewarm and the traitors.This sifting process began at school. For the remarkable fact
about the language struggle is that its waves strike hardest perhaps in
the school, since it is the seed-bed of the coming generation. It is a struggle
for the soul of the child, and to the child its first appeal is addressed:'German boy, do not forget you are a German,' and, 'Little girl,
remember that you are to become a German mother.'Anyone who knows the soul of youth will be able to understand
that it is they who lend ear most joyfully to such a battle-cry. They carry
on this struggle in hundreds of forms, in their own way and with their own
weapons. They refuse to sing unGerman songs. The more anyone tries to alienate
them from German heroic grandeur, the wilder becomes their enthusiasm: they
go hungry to save pennies for the grown-ups' battle fund their ears are
amazingly sensitive to un-German teachers, and at the same time they are
incredibly resistant; they wear the forbidden insignia of their own nationality
and are happy to be punished or even beaten for it. Thus, on a small scale
they are a faithful reflection of the adults, except that often their convictions
are better and more honest.I, too, while still comparatively young, had an opportunity
to take part in the struggle of nationalities in old Austria. Collections
were taken for the Sudmark I and the school association; we emphasized our
convictions by wearing corn-flowers and red lack, and gold colors; 'Heil
' was our greeting, and instead of the imperial anthem we sang 'Deutschland
uber Alles,' despite warnings and punishments. In this way the child received
political training in a period when as a rule the subject of a so-called
national state knew little more of his nationality than its language. It
goes without saying that even then I was not among the lukewarm. In a short
time I had become a fanatical 'German Nationalist,' though the term was
not identical with our present party concept.This development in me made rapid progress; by the time I was
fifteen I understood the difference between dynastic ' patriotism' and folkish
"nationalism'; and even then I was interested only in the latter.For anyone who has never taken the trouble to study the inner
conditions of the Habsburg monarchy, such a process may not be entirely
understandable. In this country the instruction in world history had to
provide the germ for this development, since to all intents and purposes
there is no such thing as a specifically Austrian history. The destiny of
this state is so much bound up with the life and development of all the
Germans that a separation of history into German and Austrian does not seem
conceivable. Indeed, when at length Germany began to divide into two spheres
of power, this division itself became German history.The insignia of former imperial glory, preserved in Vienna,
still seem to cast a magic spell; they stand as a pledge that these twofold
destinies are eternally one.The elemental cry of the German-Austrian people for union with
the German mother country, that arose in the days when the Habsburg state
was collapsing, was the result of a longing that slumbered in the heart
of the entire people-a longing to return to the never-forgotten ancestral
home. But this would be in explicable if the historical education of the
individual GermanAustrian had not given rise to so general a longing. In
it lies a well which never grows dry; which, especially in times of forgetfulness,
transcends all momentary prosperity and by constant reminders of the past
whispers softly of a new futureInstruction in world history in the so-called high schools is
even today in a very sorry condition. Few teachers understand that the aim
of studying history can never be to learn historical dates and events by
heart and recite them by rote; that what matters is not whether the child
knows exactly when this or that battle was fought, when a general was born,
or even when a monarch (usually a very insignificant one) came into the
crown of his forefathers. No, by the living God, this is very unimportant.To 'learn' history means to seek and find the forces which are
the causes leading to those effects which we subsequently perceive as historical
events.The art of reading as of learning is this: to retain the essential
to forget the non-essential.Perhaps it affected my whole later life that good fortune sent
me a history teacher who was one of the few to observe this principle in
teaching and examining. Dr. Leopold Potsch, my professor at the Realschule
in Linz, embodied this requirement to an ideal degree. This old gentleman's
manner was as kind as it was determined, his dazzling eloquence not only
held us spellbound but actually carried us away. Even today I think back
with gentle emotion on this gray-haired man who, by the fire of his narratives,
sometimes made us forget the present; who, as if by enchantment, carried
us into past times and, out of the millennial veils of mist, molded dry
historical memories into living reality. On such occasions we sat there,
often aflame with enthusiasm, and sometimes even moved to tears.What made our good fortune all the greater was that this teacher
knew how to illuminate the past by examples from the present, and how from
the past to draw inferences for the present. As a result he had more understanding
than anyone else for all the daily problems which then held us breathless.
He used our budding nationalistic fanaticism as a means of educating use
frequently appealing to our sense of national honor. By this alone he was
able to discipline us little ruffians more easily than would have been possible
by any other means.This teacher made history my favorite subject.And indeed, though he had no such intention, it was then that
I became a little revolutionary.For who could have studied German history under such a teacher
without becoming an enemy of the state which, through its ruling house,
exerted so disastrous an influence on the destinies of the nation?And who could retain his loyalty to a dynasty which in past
and present betrayed the needs of the German people again and again for
shameless private advantage?Did we not know, even as little boys, that this Austrian state
had and could have no love for us Germans?Our historical knowledge of the works of the House of Habsburg
was reinforced by our daily experience. In the north and south the poison
of foreign nations gnawed at the body of our nationality, and even Vienna
was visibly becoming more and more of an un-German city. The Royal House
Czechized wherever possible, and it was the hand of the goddess of eternal
justice and inexorable retribution which caused Archduke Francis Ferdinand,
the most mortal enemy of Austrian-Germanism, to fall by the bullets which
he himself had helped to mold. For had he not been the patron of Austria's
Slavization from above !Immense were the burdens which the German people were expected
to bear, inconceivable their sacrifices in taxes and blood, and yet anyone
who was not totally blind was bound to recognize that all this would be
in vain. What pained us most was the fact that this entire system was morally
whitewashed by the alliance with Germany, with the result that the slow
extermination of Germanism in the old monarchy was in a certain sense sanctioned
by Germany itself. The Habsburg hypocrisy, which enabled the Austrian rulers
to create the outward appearance that Austria was a German state, raised
the hatred toward this house to flaming indignation and at the same time
-contempt.Only in the Reich itself, the men who even then were called
to power saw nothing of all this. As though stricken with blindness, they
lived by the side of a corpse, and in the symptoms of rotten-
ness saw only the signs of 'new' life.The unholy alliance of the young Reich and the Austrian sham
state contained the germ of the subsequent World War and of the collapse
as well.In the course of this book I shall have occasion to take up
this problem at length. Here it suffices to state that even in my earliest
youth I came to the basic insight which never left me, but Only became more
profound:That Germanism could be safeguarded only by the destruction
of Austria, and, furthermore, that national sentiment is in no sense Identical
with dynastic patriotism; that above all the House of Habsburg was destined
to be the misfortune of the German nation.Even then I had drawn the consequences from this realization
ardent love for my German-Austrian homeland state.The habit of historical thinking which I thus learned in
school has never left me in the intervening years. To an ever-increasing
extent world history became for me an inexhaustible source of understanding
for the historical events of the present, in other words, for politics.
I do not want to 'learn' it, I want it to in instruct me.Thus, at an early age, I had become a political ' revolutionary,'
and I became an artistic revolutionary at an equally early age.The provincial capital of Upper Austria had at that time a theater
which was, relatively speaking, not bad. Pretty much of everything was produced.
At the age of twelve I saw Wilhelm Tell for the first time, and a few months
later my first opera, Lohengrin. I was captivated at once. My youthful enthusiasm
for the master of Bayreuth knew no bounds. Again and again I was drawn to
his works, and it still seems to me especially fortunate that the modest
provincial performance left me open to an intensified experience later on.All this, particularly after I had outgrown my adolescence (which
in my case was an especially painful process), reinforced my profound distaste
for the profession which my father had chosen for me. My conviction grew
stronger and stronger that I would never be happy as a civil servant. The
fact that by this time my gift for drawing had been recognized at the Realschule
made my determination all the firmer.Neither pleas nor threats could change it one bit.I wanted to become a painter and no power in the world could
make me a civil servant.Yet, strange as it may seem, with the passing years I became
more and more interested in architecture.At that time I regarded this as a natural complement to my gift
as a painter, and only rejoiced inwardly at the extension of my artistic
scope.I did not suspect that things would turn out differently.The question of my profession was to be decided more quickly
than I had previously expected.
In my thirteenth year I suddenly lost my father. A stroke of apoplexy felled
the old gentleman who was otherwise so hale, thus painlessly ending his
earthly pilgrimage, plunging us all into the depths of grief His most ardent
desire had been to help his son forge his career, thus preserving him from
his own bitter experience. In this, to all appearances, he had not succeeded.
But, though unwittingly, he had sown the seed for a future which at that
time neither he nor I would have comprehended.For the moment there was no outward change.My mother, to be sure, felt obliged to continue my education
in accordance with my father's wish; in other words, to have me study for
the civil servant's career. I, for my part, was more than ever determined
absolutely not to undertake this career. In proportion as my schooling departed
from my ideal in subject matter and curriculum, I became more indifferent
at heart. Then suddenly an illness came to my help and in a few weeks decided
my future and the eternal domestic quarrel. As a result of my serious lung
ailment, a physician advised my mother in most urgent terms never to send
me into an office. My attendance at the Realschule had furthermore to be
interrupted for at least a year. The goal for which I had so long silently
yearned, for which I had always fought, had through this event suddenly
become reality almost of its own accord.Concerned over my illness, my mother finally consented to take
me out of the Realschule and let- me attend the Academy.These were the happiest days of my life and seemed to me almost
a dream; and a mere dream it was to remain. Two years later, the death of
my mother put a sudden end to all my highflown plans.It was the conclusion of a long and painful illness which from
the beginning left little hope of recovery. Yet it was a dreadful blow,
particularly for me. I had honored my father, but my mother I had loved.Poverty and hard reality now compelled me to take a quick decision.
What little my father had left had been largely exhausted by my mother's
grave illness; the orphan's pension to which I was entitled was not enough
for me even to live on, and so I was faced with the problem of somehow making
my own living.In my hand a suitcase full of clothes and underwear; in my heart
an indomitable will, I journeyed to Vienna. I, too, hoped to wrest from
Fate what my father had accomplished fifty years before; I, too, wanted
to become 'something'-but on no account a civil servant.


WHEN my mother died, Fate, at least in one respect, had made
its decisions. In the last months of her sickness, I had gone to Vienna to
take the entrance examination for the Academy. I had set out with a pile
of drawings, convinced that it would be child's play to pass the examination.
At the Realschule I had been by far the best in my class at drawing,
and since then my ability had developed amazingly; my own satisfaction caused
me to take a joyful pride in hoping for the best.Yet sometimes a drop of bitterness put in its appearance: my
talent for painting seemed to be excelled by my talent for drawing, especially
in almost all fields of architecture. At the same time my interest in architecture
as such increased steadily, and this development was accelerated after a
two weeks' trip to Vienna which I took when not yet sixteen. The purpose
of my trip was to study the picture gallery in the Court Museum, but I had
eyes for scarcely anything but the Museum itself. From morning until late
at night, I ran from one object of interest to another, but it was always
the buildings which held my primary interest. For hours I could stand in
front of the Opera, for hours I could gaze at the Parliament; the whole
Ring Boulevard seemed to me like an enchantment out of -The Thousand-and-One-Nights.Now I was in the fair city for the second time, waiting with
burning impatience, but also with confident self-assurance, for the result
of my entrance examination. I was so convinced that I would be successful
that when I received my rejection, it struck me as a bolt from the blue.
Yet that is what happened. When I presented myself to the rector, requesting
an explanation for my non-acceptance at the Academy's school of painting,
that gentleman assured me that the drawings I had submitted incontrovertibly
showed my unfitness for painting, and that my ability obviously lay in the
field of architecture; for me, he said, the Academy's school of painting
was out of the question, the place for me was the School of Architecture.
It was incomprehensible to him that I had never attended an architectural
school or received any other training in architecture. Downcast, I left
von Hansen's magnificent building on the Schillerplatz, for the first time
in my young life at odds with myself. For what I had just heard about my
abilities seemed like a lightning flash, suddenly revealing a conflict with
which I had long been afflicted, although until then I had no clear conception
of its why and wherefore.In a few days I myself knew that I should some day become an
architect. To be sure, it was an incredibly hard road; for the studies
I had neglected out of spite at the Realschule were sorely needed.
One could not attend the Academy's architectural school without having attended
the building school at the Technic, and the latter required a high-school
degree. I had none of all this. The fulfill- ment of my artistic dream seemed
physically impossible.When after the death of my mother I went to Vienna for the third
time, to remain for many years, the time which had mean-while elapsed had
restored my calm and determination. My old defiance had come back to me
and my goal was now clear and definite before my eyes. I wanted to become
an architect, and obstacles do not exist to be surrendered to, but only
to be broken. I was determined to overcome these obstacles, keeping before
my eyes the image of my father, who had started out as the child of a village
shoemaker, and risen by his own efforts to be a government official. I had
a better foundation to build on, and hence my possibilities in the struggle
were easier, and what then seemed to be the harshness of Fate, I praise
today as wisdom and Providence. While the Goddess of Suffering took me in
her arms, often threatening to crush me, my will to resistance grew, and
in the end this will was victorious.I owe it to that period that I grew hard and am still capable
of being hard. And even more, I exalt it for tearing me away from the hollowness
of comfortable life; for drawing the mother's darling out of his soft downy
bed and giving him 'Dame Care' for a new mother; for hurling me, despite
all resistance, into a world of misery and poverty, thus making me acquainted
with those for whom I was later to fight.In this period my eyes were opened to two menaces of which
I had previously scarcely known the names, and whose terrible importance
for the existence of the German people I certainly did not understand: Marxism
and Jewry.To me Vienna, the city which, to so many, is the epitome of
innocent pleasure, a festive playground for merrymakers, represents, I am
sorry to say, merely the living memory of the saddest period of my life.Even today this city can arouse in me nothing but the most dismal
thoughts. For me the name of this Phaeacian city I represents five years
of hardship and misery. Five years in which I was forced to earn a living,
first as a day laborer, then as a small painter; a truly meager living which
never sufficed to appease even my daily hunger. Hunger was then my faithful
bodyguard; he never left me for a moment and partook of all I had, share
and share alike. Every book I acquired aroused his interest; a visit to
the Opera prompted his attentions for days at a time; my life was a continuous
struggle with this pitiless friend. And yet during this time I studied as
never before. Aside from my architecture and my rare visits to the Opera,
paid-for in hunger, I had but one pleasure: my books.At that time I read enormously and thoroughly. All the free
time my work left me was employed in my studies. In this way I forged in
a few years' time the foundations of a knowledge from which I still draw
nourishment today.And even more than this:In this period there took shape within me a world picture and
a philosophy which became the granite foundation of all my acts. In addition
to what I then created, I have had to learn little; and I have had to alter
nothing.On the contrary.Today I am firmly convinced that basically and on the whole
all creative ideas appear in our youth, in so far as any such are present.
I distinguish between the wisdom of age, consisting solely in greater thoroughness
and caution due to the experience of a long life, and the genius of youth,
which pours out thoughts and ideas with inexhaustible fertility, but cannot
for the moment develop them because of their very abundance. It is this
youthful genius which provides the building materials and plans for the
future, from which a wiser age takes the stones, carves them and completes
the edifice, in so far as the so-called wisdom of age has not stifled the
genius of youth.The life which I had hitherto led at home differed little
or not at all from the life of other people. Carefree, I could await the
new day, and there was no social problem for me. The environment of my youth
consisted of petty-bourgeois circles, hence of a world having very little
relation to the purely manual worker. For, strange as it may seem at first
glance, the cleft between this class, which in an economic sense is by no
means so brilliantly situated, and the manual worker is often deeper than
we imagine. The reason for this hostility, as we might almost call it, lies
in the fear of a social group, which has but recently raised itself above
the level of the manual worker, that it will sink back into the old despised
class, or at least become identified with it. To this, in many cases, we
must add the repugnant memory of the cultural poverty of this lower class,
the frequent vulgarity of its social intercourse; the petty bourgeois' own
position in society, however insignificant it may be, makes any contact
with this outgrown stage of life and culture intolerable.Consequently, the higher classes feel less constraint in their
dealings with the lowest of their fellow men than seems possible to the
'upstart.'For anyone is an upstart who rises by his own efforts from his
previous position in life to a higher one.Ultimately this struggle, which is often so hard, kills all
pity. Our own painful struggle for existence destroys our feeling for the
misery of those who have remained behind.In this respect Fate was kind to me. By forcing me to return
to this world of poverty and insecurity, from which my father had risen
in the course of his life, it removed the blinders of a narrow petty-bourgeois
upbringing from my eyes. Only now did I learn to know humanity, learning
to distinguish between empty appearances or brutal externals and the inner
being.After the turn of the century, Vienna was, socially speaking,
one of the most backward cities in Europe.Dazzling riches and loathsome poverty alternated sharply. In
the center and in the inner districts you could really feel the pulse of
this realm of fifty-two millions, with all the dubious magic of the national
melting pot. The Court with its dazzling glamour attracted wealth and intelligence
from the rest of the country like a magnet. Added to this was the strong
centralization of the Habsburg monarchy in itself.It offered the sole possibility of holding this medley of nations
together in any set form. But the consequence was an extraordinary concentration
of high authorities in the imperial capitalYet not only in the political and intellectual sense was Vienna
the center of the old Danube monarchy, but economically as well. The host
of high of officers, government officials, artists, and scholars was confronted
by an even greater army of workers, and side by side with aristocratic and
commercial wealth dwelt dire poverty. Outside the palaces on the Ring loitered
thousands of unemployed, and beneath this Via Triumphalis of old Austria
dwelt the homeless in the gloom and mud of the canals.In hardly any German city could the social question have been
studied better than in Vienna. But make no mistake. This 'studying' cannot
be done from lofty heights. No one who has not been seized in the jaws of
this murderous viper can know its poison fangs. Otherwise nothing results
but superficial chatter and false sentimentality. Both are harmful. The
former because it can never penetrate to the core of the problem, the latter
because it passes it by. I do not know which is more terrible: inattention
to social misery such as we see every day among the majority of those who
have been favored by fortune or who have risen by their own efforts, or
else the snobbish, or at times tactless and obtrusive, condescension of
certain women of fashion in skirts or in trousers, who ' feel for the people.'
In any event, these gentry sin far more than their minds, devoid of all
instinct, are capable of realizing. Consequently, and much to their own
amazement, the result of their social 'efforts' is always nil, frequently,
in fact, an indignant rebuff, though this, of course, is passed off as a
proof of the people's ingratitude.Such minds are most reluctant to realize that social endeavor
has nothing in common with this sort of thing; that above all it can raise
no claim to gratitude, since its function is not to distribute favors but
to restore rights.I was preserved from studying the social question in such a
way. By drawing me within its sphere of suffering, it did not seem to invite
me to 'study,' but to experience it in my own skin. It was none of its doing
that the guinea pig came through the operation safe and sound.An attempt to enumerate the sentiments I experienced in that
period could never be even approximately complete; I shall describe here
only the most essential impressions, those which often moved me most deeply,
and the few lessons which I derived from them at the time.The actual business of finding work was, as a rule, not hard
for me, since I was not a skilled craftsman, but was obliged to seek my
daily bread as a so-called helper and sometimes as a casual laborer.
I adopted the attitude of all those who shake the dust of Europe from their
feet with the irrevocable intention of founding a new existence in the New
World and conquering a new home. Released from all the old, paralyzing ideas
of profession and position, environment and tradition, they snatch at every
livelihood that offers itself, grasp at every sort of work, progressing
step by step to the realization that honest labor, no matter of what sort,
disgraces no one. I, too, was determined to leap into this new world, with
both feet, and fight my way through.
I soon learned that there was always some kind of work to be had, but equally
soon I found out how easy it was to lose it.
The uncertainty of earning my daily bread soon seemed to me one of the darkest
sides of my new life.The ' skilled' worker does not find himself out on the street
as frequently as the unskilled; but he is not entirely immune to this fate
either. And in his case the loss of livelihood owing to lack of work is
replaced by the lock-out, or by going on strike himself.
In this respect the entire economy suffers bitterly from the individual's
insecurity in earning his daily bread.The peasant boy who goes to the big city, attracted by the easier
nature of the work (real or imaginary), by shorter hours, but most of all
by the dazzling light emanating from the metropolis, is accustomed to a
certain security in the matter of livelihood. He leaves his old job only
when there is at least some prospect of a new one. For there is a great
lack of agricultural workers, hence the probability of any long period of
unemployment is in itself small. It is a mistake to believe that the young
fellow who goes to the big city is made of poorer stuff than his brother
who continues to make an honest living from the peasant sod. No, on the
contrary: experience shows that all those elements which emigrate consist
of the healthiest and most energetic natures, rather than conversely. Yet
among these 'emigrants' we must count, not only those who go to America,
but to an equal degree the young farmhand who resolves to leave his native
village for the strange city. He, too, is prepared to face an uncertain
fate. As a rule he arrives in the big city with a certain amount of money;
he has no need to lose heart on the very first day if he has the ill fortune
to find no work for any length of time. But it is worse if, after finding
a job, he soon loses it. To find a new one, especially in winter, is often
difficult if not impossible. Even so, the first weeks are tolerable. He
receives an unemployment benefit from his union funds and manages as well
as possible. But when his last cent is gone and the union, due to the long
duration of his unemployment, discontinues its payments, great hardships
begin. Now he walks the streets, hungry; often he pawns and sells his last
possessions; his clothing becomes more and more wretched; and thus he sinks
into external surroundings which, on top of his physical misfortune, also
poison his soul. If he is evicted and if (as is so often the case) this
occurs in winter, his misery is very great. At length he finds some sort
of job again. But the old story is repeated. The same thing happens a second
time, the third time perhaps it is even worse, and little by little he learns
to bear the eternal insecurity with greater and greater indifference. At
last the repetition becomes a habit.And so this man, who was formerly so hard-working, grows lax
in his whole view of life and gradually becomes the instrument of those
who use him only for their own base advantage. He has so often been unemployed
through no fault of his own that one time more or less ceases to matter,
even when the aim is no longer to fight for economic rights, but to destroy
political, social, or culturaL values in general. He may not be exactly
enthusiastic about strikes, but at any rate he has become indifferent.With open eyes I was able to follow this process in a thousand
examples. The more I witnessed it, the greater grew my revulsion for the
big city which first avidly sucked men in and then so cruelly crushed them.When they arrived, they belonged to their people; after remaining
for a few years, they were lost to it.I, too, had been tossed around by life in the metropolis- in
my own skin I could feel the effects of this fate and taste them with my
soul. One more thing I saw: the rapid change from work to unemployment and
vice versa, plus the resultant fluctuation of income, end by destroying
in many all feeling for thrift, or any understanding for a prudent ordering
of their lives. It would seem that the body gradually becomes accustomed
to living on the fat of the land in good times and going hungry in bad times.
Indeed, hunger destroys any resolution for reasonable budgeting in better
times to come by holding up to the eyes of its tormented victim an eternal
mirage of good living and raising this dream to such a pitch of longing
that a pathological desire puts an end to all restraint as soon as wages
and earnings make it at all possible. The consequence is that once the man
obtains work he irresponsibly forgets all ideas of order and discipline,
and begins to live luxuriously for the pleasures of the moment. This upsets
even the small weekly budget, as even here any intelligent apportionment
is lacking; in the beginning it suffices for five days instead of seven,
later only for three, finally scarcely for one day, and in the end it is
drunk up in the very first night.
Often he has a wife and children at home. Sometimes they, too, are infected
by this life, especially when the man is good to them on the whole and actually
loves them in his own way. Then the weekly wage is used up by the whole
family in two or three days; they eat and drink as long as the money holds
out and the last days they go hungry. Then the wife drags herself out into
the neighborhood, borrows a little, runs up little debts at the food store,
and in this way strives to get through the hard last days of the week. At
noon they all sit together before their meager and sometimes empty bowls,
waiting for the next payday, speaking of it, making plans, and, in their
hunger, dreaming of the happiness to come.And so the little children, in their earliest beginnings, are
made familiar with this misery.It ends badly if the man goes his own way from the very beginning
and the woman, for the children's sake, opposes him. Then there is fighting
and quarreling, and, as the man grows estranged from his wife, he becomes
more intimate with alcohol. He is drunk every Saturday, and, with her instinct
of selfpreservation for herself and her children, the woman has to fight
to get even a few pennies out of him; and, to make matters worse, this usually
occurs on his way from the factory to the barroom. When at length he comes
home on Sunday or even Monday night, drunk and brutal, but always parted
from his last cent, such scenes often occur that God have mercy!I have seen this in hundreds of instances. At first I was repelled
or even outraged, but later I understood the whole tragedy of this misery
and its deeper causes. These people are the unfortunate victims of bad conditions!
Even more dismal in those days were the housing conditions. The misery in
which the Viennese day laborer lived was frightful to behold. Even today
it fills me with horror when I think of these wretched caverns, the lodging
houses and tenements, sordid scenes of garbage, repulsive filth, and worse.What was-and still is-bound to happen some day, when the stream
of unleashed slaves pours forth from these miserable dens to avenge themselves
on their thoughtless fellow men FFor thoughtless they are!Thoughtlessly they let things slide along, and with their utter
lack of intuition fail even to suspect that sooner or later Fate must bring
retribution, unless men conciliate Fate while there is still time.
How thankful I am today to the Providence which sent me to that school!
In it I could no longer sabotage the subjects I did not like. It educated
me quickly and thoroughly.If I did not wish to despair of the men who constituted my environment
at that time, I had to learn to distinguish between their external characters
and lives and the foundations of their development. Only then could all
this be borne without losing heart. Then, from all the misery and despair,
from all the filth and outward degeneration, it was no longer human beings
that emerged, but the deplorable results of deplorable laws; and the hardship
of my own life, no easier than the others, preserved me from capitulating
in tearful sentimentality to the degenerate products of this process of
development.No, this is not the way to understand all these things!Even then I saw that only a twofold road could lead to the goal
of improving these conditions:The deepest sense of social responsibility for the creation
of better foundations for our development, coupled with brutal determination
on breaking down incurable tenors.Just as Nature does not concentrate her greatest attention in
preserving what exists, but in breeding offspring to carry on the species,
likewise, in human life, it is less important artificially to alleviate
existing evil, which, in view of human nature, is ninety-nine per cent impossible,
than to ensure
from the start healthier channels for a future development.During my struggle for existence in Vienna, it had become clear
to me thatSocial activity must never and on no account be directed toward
philanthropic flim-flam, but rather toward the elimination of the basic
deficiencies in the organization of our economic and cultural life that
must-or at all events can-lead to the degeneration of the individual .The difficulty of applying the most extreme and brutal methods
against the criminals who endanger the state lies not least in the uncertainty
of our judgment of the inner motives or causes of such contemporary phenomena.This uncertainty is only too well founded in our own sense of
guilt regarding such tragedies of degeneration; be that as it may, it paralyzes
any serious and firm decision and is thus partly responsible for the weak
and half-hearted, because hesitant, execution of even the most necessary
measures of selfpreservation.Only when an epoch ceases to be haunted by the shadow of its
own consciousness of guilt will it achieve the inner calm and outward strength
brutally and ruthlessly to prune off the wild shoots and tear out the weeds.Since the Austrian state had practically no social legislation
or jurisprudence, its weakness in combating even malignant tumors was glaring.I do not know what horrified me most at that time: the economic misery
of my companions, their moral and ethical coarseness, or the low level of
their intellectual development.How often does our bourgeoisie rise in high moral indignation
when they hear some miserable tramp declare that it is all the same to him
whether he is a German or not, that he feels equally happy wherever he is,
as long as he has enough to live on!This lack of 'national pride' is most profoundly deplored, and
horror at such an attitude is expressed in no uncertain terms.How many people have asked themselves what was the real reason
for the superiority of their own sentiments?How many are aware of the infinite number of separate memories
of the greatness of our national fatherland in all the fields of cultural
and artistic life, whose total result is to inspire them with just pride
at being members of a nation so blessed?How many suspect to how great an extent pride in the fatherland
depends on knowledge of its greatness in all these fields?Do our bourgeois circles ever stop to consider to what an absurdly
small extent this prerequisite of pride in the fatherland is transmitted
to the 'people'?Let us not try to condone this by saying that ' it is no better
in other countries,' and that in those countries the worker avows his nationality
'notwithstanding.' Even if this were so, it could serve as no excuse for
our own omissions. But it is not so; for the thing that we constantly designate
as 'chauvinistic' education; for example among the French people, is nothing
other than extreme emphasis on the greatness of France in all the fields
of culture, or, as the Frenchman puts it, of 'civilization The fact is that
the young Frenchman is not brought up to be objective, but is instilled
with the most subjective conceivable view, in so far as the importance of
the political or cultural greatness of his fatherland is concerned.This education will always have to be limited to general and
extremely broad values which, if necessary, must be engraved in the memory
and feeling of the people by eternal repetition.But to the negative sin of omission is added in our country
the positive destruction of the little which the individual has the good
fortune to learn in school. The rats that politically poison our nation
gnaw even this little from the heart and memory of the broad masses, in
so far as this has not been previously accomplished by poverty and suffering.Imagine, for instance, the following scene:In a basement apartment, consisting of two stuffy rooms, dwells
a worker's family of seven. Among the five children there is a boy of, let
us assume, three years. This is the age in which the first impressions are
made on the consciousness of the child Talented persons retain traces of
memory from this period down to advanced old age. The very narrowness and
overcrowding of the room does not lead to favorable conditions. Quarreling
and wrangling will very frequently arise as a result. In these circumstances,
people do not live with one another, they press against one another. Every
argument, even the most trifling, which in a spacious apartment can be reconciled
by a mild segregation, thus solving itself, here leads to loathsome wrangling
without end. Among the children, of course, this is still bearable; they
always fight under such circumstances, and among themselves they quickly
and thoroughly forget about it. But if this battle is carried on between
the parents themselves, and almost every day in forms which for vulgarity
often leave nothing to be desired, then, if only very gradually, the results
of such visual instruction must ultimately become apparent in the children.
The character the) will inevitably assume if this mutual quarrel takes the
form of brutal attacks of the father against the mother, of drunken beatings,
is hard for anyone who does not know this milieu to imagine. At the age
of six the pitiable little boy suspects the existence of things which can
inspire even an adult with nothing but horror. Morally poisoned, physically
undernourished, his poor little head full of lice, the young 'citizen' goes
off to public school. After a great struggle he may learn to read and write,
but that is about all. His doing any homework is out of the question. On
the contrary, the very mother and father, even in the presence of the children,
talk about his teacher and school in terms which are not fit to be repeated,
and are more inclined to curse the latter to their face than to take their
little offspring across their knees and teach them some sense. All the other
things that the little fellow hears at home do not tend to increase his
respect for his dear fellow men. Nothing good remains of humanity, no institution
remains unassailed; beginning with his teacher and up to the head of the
government, whether it is a question of religion or of morality as such,
of the state or society, it is all the same, everything is reviled in the
most obscene terms and dragged into the filth of the basest possible outlook.
When at the age of fourteen the young man is discharged from school, it
is hard to decide what is stronger in him: his incredible stupidity as far
as
any real knowledge and ability are concerned, or the corrosive insolence
of his behavior, combined with an immorality, even at this age, which would
make your hair stand on endWhat position can this man-to whom even now hardly anything
is holy, who, just as he has encountered no greatness conversely suspects
and knows all the sordidness of life- occupy in the life into which he is
now preparing to emerge?The three-year-old child has become a fifteen-year-old despiser
of all authority. Thus far, aside from dirt and filth, this young man has
seen nothing which might inspire him to any higher enthusiasm.But only now does he enter the real university of this existence.Now he begins the same life which all along his childhood years
he has seen his father living. He hangs around the street corners and bars,
coming home God knows when; and for a change now and then he beats the broken-down
being which was once his mother, curses God and the world, and at length
is convicted of some particular offense and sent to a house of correction.There he receives his last polish.And his dear bourgeois fellow men are utterly amazed at the
lack of 'national enthusiasm' in this young 'citizen.'Day by day, in the theater and in the movies, in backstairs
literature and the yellow press, they see the poison poured into the people
by bucketfuls, and then they are amazed at the low 'moral content,' the
'national indifference,' of the masses of the people.As though trashy films, yellow press, and such-like dung could.
furnish the foundations of a knowledge of the greatness of our fatherland!-quite
aside from the early education of the individual.What I had never suspected before, I quickly and thoroughly
learned in those years:The question of the 'nationalization' of a people is, among
other things, primarily a question of creating healthy social conditions
as a foundation for the possibility of educating the individual. For only
those who through school and upbringing learn to know the cultural, economic,
but above all the political, greatness of their own fatherland can and unit
achieve the inner pride in the privilege of being a member of such a people.
And I can fight only for something that I love, love only what I respect,
and respect only what I at least know.Once my interest in the social question was aroused, I began
to study it with all thoroughness. It was a new and hitherto unknown world
which opened before me.In the years 1909 and 1910, my own situation had changed somewhat
in so far as I no longer had to earn my daily bread as a common laborer.
By this time I was working independently as a small draftsman and painter
of watercolors. Hard as this was with regard to earnings-it was barely enough
to live on- it was good for my chosen profession. Now I was no longer dead
tired in the evening when I came home from work, unable to look at a book
without soon dozing off. My present work ran parallel to my future profession.
Moreover, I was master of my own time and could apportion it better than
had previously been possible.I painted to make a living and studied for pleasure.Thus I was able to supplement my visual instruction in the social
problem by theoretical study. I studied more or less all of the books I
was able to obtain regarding this whole field, and for the rest immersed
myself in my own thoughts.I believe that those who knew me in those days took me for an
eccentric.Amid all this, as was only natural, I served my love of architecture
with ardent zeal. Along with music, it seemed to me the queen of the arts:
under such circumstances my concern with it was not 'work.' but the greatest
pleasure. I could read and draw until late into the night, and never grow
tired. Thus my faith grew that my beautiful dream for the future would become
reality after all, even though this might require long years. I was firmly
convinced that I should some day make a name for myself as an architect.In addition, I had the greatest interest in everything connected
with politics, but this did not seem to me very significant. On the contrary:
in my eyes this was the self-evident duty of every thinking man. Anyone
who failed to understand this lost the right to any criticism or complaint.In this field, too, I read and studied much.By 'reading,' to be sure, I mean perhaps something different
than the average member of our so-called 'intelligentsia.'I know people who 'read' enormously, book for book, letter for
letter, yet whom I would not describe as 'well-read.' True they possess
a mass of 'knowledge,' but their brain is unable to organize and register
the material they have taken in. They lack the art of sifting what is valuable
for them in a book from that which is without value, of retaining the one
forever, and, if possible, not even seeing the rest, but in any case not
dragging it around with them as useless ballast. For reading is no end in
itself, but a means to an end. It should primarily help to fill the framework
constituted by every man's talents and abilities; in addition, it should
provide the tools and building materials which the individual needs for
his life's work, regardless whether this consists in a primitive struggle
for sustenance or the satisfaction of a high calling; secondly, it should
transmit a general world view. In both cases, however, it is essential that
the con tent of what one reads at any time should not be transmitted to
the memory in the sequence of the book or books, but like the stone of a
mosaic should fit into the general world picture in its proper place, and
thus help to form this picture in the mind of the reader. Otherwise there
arises a confused muddle of memorized facts which not only are worthless,
but also make their unto fortunate possessor conceited. For such a reader
now believes himself in all seriousness to be {educated,' to understand
something of life, to have knowledge, while in reality, with every new acquisition
of this kind of 'education,' he is growing more and more removed from the
world until, not infrequently, he ends up in a sanitarium or in parliament.
Never will such a mind succeed in culling from the confusion of his ' knowledge
' anything that suits the demands of the hour, for his intellectual ballast
is not organized along the lines of life, but in the sequence of the books
as he read them and as their content has piled up in his brain If Fate,
in the requirements of his daily life, desired to remind him to make a correct
application of what he had read, it would have to indicate title and page
number, since the poor fool would otherwise never in all his life find the
correct place. But since Fate does not do this, these bright boys in any
critical situation come into the most terrible embarrassment, cast about
convulsively for analogous cases, and with mortal certainty naturally find
the wrong formulas.If this were not true, it would be impossible for us to understand
the political behavior of our learned and highly placed government heroes,
unless we decided to assume outright villainy instead of pathological propensities.On the other hand, a man who possesses the art of correct reading
will, in studying any book, magazine, or pamphlet, instinctively and immediately
perceive everything which in his opinion is worth permanently remembering,
either because it is suited to his purpose or generally worth knowing. Once
the knowledge he has achieved in this fashion is correctly coordinated within
the somehow existing picture of this or that subject created by the imaginations
it will function either as a corrective or a complement, thus enhancing
either the correctness or the clarity of the picture. Then, if life suddenly
sets some question before us for examination or answer, the memory, if this
method of reading is observed, will immediately take the existing picture
as a norm, and from it will derive all the individual items regarding these
questions, assembled in the course of decades, submit them to the mind for
examination and reconsideration, until the question is clarified or answered.Only this kind of reading has meaning and purpose.An orator, for example, who does not thus provide his intelligence
with the necessary foundation will never be in a position cogently to defend
his view in the face of opposition, though it may be a thousand times true
or real. In every discussion his memory will treacherously leave him in
the lurch; he will find neither grounds for reinforcing his own contentions
nor any for confuting those of his adversary. If, as in the case of a speaker,
it is only a question of making a fool of himself personally, it may not
be so bad, but not so when Fate predestines such a know-it-all incompetent
to be the leader of a state.Since my earliest youth I have endeavored to read in the correct
way, and in this endeavor I have been most happily supported by my memory
and intelligence. Viewed in this light, my Vienna period was especially
fertile and valuable. The experiences of daily life provided stimulation
for a constantly renewed study of the most varied problems. Thus at last
I was in a position to bolster up reality by theory and test theory by reality,
and was preserved from being stifled by theory or growing banal through
reality.In this period the experience of daily life directed and stimulated
me to the most thorough theoretical study of two questions in addition to
the social question.Who knows when I would have immersed myself in the doctrines
and essence of Marxism if that period had not literally thrust my nose into
the problem!What I knew of Social Democracy in my youth was exceedingly
little and very inaccurate.I was profoundly pleased that it should carry on the struggle
for universal suffrage and the secret ballot. For even then my intelligence
told me that this must help to weaken the Habsburg regime which I so hated.
In the conviction that the Austrian Empire could never be preserved except
by victimizing its Germans, but that even the price of a gradual Slavization
of the German element by no means provided a guaranty of an empire really
capable of survival, since the power of the Slavs to uphold the state must
be estimated as exceedingly dubious, I welcomed every development which
in my opinion would inevitably lead to the collapse of this impossible state
which condemned ten million Germans to death. The more the linguistic Babel
corroded and disorganized parliament, the closer drew the inevitable hour
of the disintegration of this Babylonian Empire, and with it the hour of
freedom for my German-Austrian people. Only in this way could the Anschluss
with the old mother country be restored.Consequently, this activity of the Social Democracy was not
displeasing to me. And the fact that it strove to improve the living conditions
of the worker, as, in my innocence, I was still stupid enough to believe,
likewise seemed to speak rather for it than against it. What most repelled
me was its hostile attitude toward the struggle for the preservation of
Germanism, its disgraceful courting of the Slavic 'comrade,' who accepted
this declaration of love in so far as it was bound up with practical concessions,
but otherwise maintained a lofty and arrogant reserve, thus giving the obtrusive
beggars their deserved reward.Thus, at the age of seventeen the word 'Marxism' was as yet
little known to me, while ' Social Democracy ' and socialism seemed to me
identical concepts. Here again it required the fist of Fate to open my eyes
to this unprecedented betrayal of the peoples.Up to that time I had known the Social Democratic Party only
as an onlooker at a few mass demonstrations, without possessing even the
slightest insight into the mentality of its adherents or the nature of its
doctrine; but now, at one stroke, I came into contact with the products
of its education and 'philosophy.' And in a few months I obtained what might
otherwise have required decades: an understanding of a pestilential whore,l
cloaking herself as social virtue and brotherly love, from which I hope
humanity will rid this earth with the greatest dispatch, since otherwise
the earth might well become rid of humanity.My first encounter with the Social Democrats occurred during
my employment as a building worker.From the very beginning it was none too pleasant. ;My clothing
was still more or less in order, my speech cultivated, and my manner reserved.
I was still so busy with my own destiny that I could not concern myself
much with the people around me. I looked for work only to avoid starvation,
only to obtain an opportunity of continuing my education, though ever so
slowly. Perhaps I would not have concerned myself at all with my new environment
if on the third or fourth day an event had not taken place which forced
me at once to take a position. I was asked to join the organization.My knowledge of trade-union organization was at that time practically
non-existent. I could not have proved that its existence was either beneficial
or harmful. When I was told that I had to join, I refused. The reason I
gave was that I did not understand the matter, but that I would not let
myself be forced into anything. Perhaps my first reason accounts for my
not being thrown out at once. They may perhaps have hoped to convert me
or break down my resistance in a few days. In any event, they had made a
big mistake. At the end of two weeks I could no longer have joined, even
if I had wanted to. In these two weeks I came to know the men around me
more closely, and no power in the world could have moved me to join an organization
whose members had meanwhile come to appear to me in so unfavorable a light.During the first days I was irritable.At noon some of the workers went to the near-by taverns while
others remained at the building site and ate a lunch which, as a rule was
quite wretched. These were the married men whose wives brought them their
noonday soup in pathetic bowls. Toward the end of the week their number
always increased, why I did not understand until later. On these occasions
politics was discussed.I drank my bottle of milk and ate my piece of bread somewhere
off to one side, and cautiously studied my new associates or reflected on
my miserable lot. Nevertheless, I heard more than enough; and often it seemed
to me that they purposely moved closer to me, perhaps in order to make me
take a position. In any case, what I heard was of such a nature as to infuriate
me in the extreme. These men rejected everything: the nation as an invention
of the ' capitalistic ' (how often was I forced to hear this single word!)
classes; the fatherland as an instrument of the bourgeoisie for the exploitation
of the working class; the authority of law as a means for oppressing the
proletariat; the school as an institution for breeding slaves and slaveholders;
religion as a means for stultifying the people and making them easier to
exploit; morality as a symptom of stupid, sheeplike patience, etc. There
was absolutely nothing which was not drawn through the mud of a terrifying
depthsAt first I tried to keep silent. But at length it became impossible.
I began to take a position and to oppose them. But I was forced to recognize
that this was utterly hopeless until I possessed certain definite knowledge
of the controversial points. And so I began to examine the sources from
which they drew this supposed wisdom. I studied book after book, pamphlet
after pamphlet.From then on our discussions at work were often very heated.
I argued back, from day to day better informed than my antagonists concerning
their own knowledge, until one day they made use of the weapon which most
readily conquers reason: terror and violence. A few of the spokesmen on
the opposing side forced me either to leave the building at once or be thrown
off the scaffolding. Since I was alone and resistance seemed hopeless, I
preferred, richer by one experience, to follow the former counsel.I went away filled with disgust, but at the same time so agitated
that it would have been utterly impossible for me to turn my back on the
whole business. No, after the first surge of indignation, my stubbornness
regained the upper hand. I was determined to go to work on another building
in spite of my experience. In this decision I was reinforced by Poverty
which, a few weeks later, after I had spent what little I had saved from
my wages. enfolded me in her heartless arms. I had to go back whether I
wanted to or not. The same old story began anew and ended very much the
same as the first time.I wrestled with my innermost soul: are these people human, worthy
to belong to a great nation?A painful question; for if it is answered in the affirmative,
the struggle for my nationality really ceases to be worth the hardships
and sacrifices which the best of us have to make for the sake of such scum;
and if it is answered in the negative, our nation is pitifully poor in human
beings.On such days of reflection and cogitation, I pondered with anxious
concern on the masses of those no longer belonging to their people and saw
them swelling to the proportions of a menacing army.With what changed feeling I now gazed at the endless columns
of a mass demonstration of Viennese workers that took place one day as they
marched past four abreast! For neatly two hours I stood there watching with
bated breath the gigantic human dragon slowly winding by. In oppressed anxiety,
I finally left the place and sauntered homeward. In a tobacco shop on the
way I saw the Arbeiter-Zeitung, the central organ of the old Austrian Social
Democracy. It was available in a cheap people's cafe, to which I often went
to read newspapers; but up to that time I had not been able to bring myself
to spend more than two minutes on the miserable sheet, whose whole tone
affected me like moral vitriol. Depressed by the demonstration, I was driven
on by an inner voice to buy the sheet and read it carefully. That evening
I did so, fighting down the fury that rose up in me from time to time at
this concentrated solution of lies.More than any theoretical literature, my daily reading of the
Social Democratic press enabled me to study the inner nature of these thought-processes.For what a difference between the glittering phrases about freedom,
beauty, and dignity in the theoretical literature, the delusive welter of
words seemingly expressing the most profound and laborious wisdom, the loathsome
humanitarian morality- all this written with the incredible gall that comes
with prophetic certainty-and the brutal daily press, shunning no villainy,
employing every means of slander, lying with a virtuosity that would bend
iron beams, all in the name of this gospel of a new humanity. The one is
addressed to the simpletons of the middle, not to mention the upper, educated,
'classes,' the other to the masses.For me immersion in the literature and press of this doctrine
and organization meant finding my way back to my own people.
What had seemed to me an unbridgable gulf became the source of a greater
love than ever before.Only a fool can behold the work of this villainous poisoner
and still condemn the victim. The more independent I made myself in the
next few years the clearer grew my perspective, hence my insight into the
inner causes of the Social Democratic successes. I now understood the significance
of the brutal demand that I read only Red papers, attend only Red meetings,
read only Red books, etc. With plastic clarity I saw before my eyes the
inevitable result of this doctrine of intolerance.The psyche of the great masses is not receptive to anything
that is half-hearted and weak.Like the woman, whose psychic state is determined less by grounds
of abstract reason than by an indefinable emotional longing for a force
which will complement her nature, and who, consequently, would rather bow
to a strong man than dominate a weakling, likewise the masses love a commander
more than a petitioner and feel inwardly more satisfied by a doctrine, tolerating
no other beside itself, than by the granting of liberalistic freedom with
which, as a rule, they can do little, and are prone to feel that they have
been abandoned. They are equally unaware of their shameless spiritual terrorization
and the hideous abuse of their human freedom, for they absolutely fail to
suspect the inner insanity of the whole doctrine. All they see is the ruthless
force and brutality of its calculated manifestations, to which they always
submit in the end.If Social Democracy is opposed by a doctrine of greater truth,
but equal brutality of methods, the latter will conquer, though this may
require the bitterest struggle.Before two years had passed, the theory as well as the technical
methods of Social Democracy were clear to me.I understood the infamous spiritual terror which this movement
exerts, particularly on the bourgeoisie, which is neither morally nor mentally
equal to such attacks; at a given sign it unleashes a veritable barrage
of lies and slanders against whatever adversary seems most dangerous, until
the nerves of the attacked persons break down and, just to have peace again,
they sacrifice the hated individual.However, the fools obtain no peace.The game begins again and is repeated over and over until fear
of the mad dog results in suggestive paralysis.Since the Social Democrats best know the value of force from
their own experience, they most violently attack those in whose nature they
detect any of this substance which is so rare. Conversely, they praise every
weakling on the opposing side, sometimes cautiously, sometimes loudly, depending
on the real or supposed quality of his intelligence.They fear an irnpotent, spineless genius less than a forceful
nature of moderate intelligence.But with the greatest enthusiasm they commend weaklings in both
mind and force.They know how to create the illusion that this is the only way
of preserving the peace, and at the same time, stealthily but steadily,
they conquer one position after another, sometimes by silent blackmail,
sometimes by actual theft, at moments when the general attention is directed
toward other matters, and either does not want to be disturbed or considers
the matter too small to raise a stir about, thus again irritating the vicious
antagonist.This is a tactic based on precise calculation of all human weaknesses,
and its result will lead to success with almost mathematical certainty unless
the opposing side learns to combat poison gas with poison gas.It is our duty to inform all weaklings that this is a question
of to be or not to be.
I achieved an equal understanding of the importance of physical terror toward
the individual and the masses.Here, too, the psychological effect can be calculated with precision.Terror at the place of employment, in the factory, in the meeting
hall, and on the occasion of mass demonstrations will always be successful
unless opposed by equal terror.In this case, to be sure, the party will cry bloody murder;
though it has long despised all state authority, it will set up a howling
cry for that same authority and in most cases will actually attain its goal
amid the general confusion: it will find some idiot of a higher official
who, in the imbecilic hope of propitiating the feared adversary for later
eventualities, will help this world plague to break its opponent.The impression made by such a success on the minds of the great
masses of supporters as well as opponents can only be measured by those
who know the soul of a people, not from books, but from life. For while
in the ranks of their supporters the victory achieved seems a triumph of
the justice of their own cause, the defeated adversary in most cases despairs
of the success of any further resistance.The more familiar I became, principally with the methods of
physical terror, the more indulgent I grew toward all the hundreds of thousands
who succumbed to it.What makes me most indebted to that period of suffering is that
it alone gave back to me my people, taught me to distinguish the victims
from their seducers.The results of this seduction can be designated only as victims.
For if I attempted to draw a few pictures from life, depicting the essence
of these 'lowest' classes, my picture would not be complete without the
assurance that in these depths I also found bright spots in the form of
a rare willingness to make sacrifices, of loyal comradeship, astonishing
frugality, and modest reserve, especially among the older workers. Even
though these virtues were steadily vanishing in the younger generation,
if only through the general effects of the big city, there were many, even
among the young men, whose healthy blood managed to dominate the foul tricks
of life. If in their political activity, these good, often kind-hearted
people nevertheless joined the mortal enemies of our nationality, thus helping
to cement their ranks, the reason was that they neither understood nor could
understand the baseness of the new doctrine, and that no one else took the
trouble to bother about them, and finally that the social conditions were
stronger than any will to the contrary that may have been present. The poverty
to which they sooner or later succumbed drove them into the camp of the
Social Democracy.Since on innumerable occasions the bourgeoisie has in the clumsiest
and most immoral way opposed demands which were justified from the universal
human point of view, often without obtaining or even justifiably expecting
any profit from such an attitude, even the most self-respecting worker was
driven out of the trade-union organization into political activity.Millions of workers, I am sure, started out as enemies of the
Social Democratic Party in their innermost soul, but their resistance was
overcome in a way which was sometimes utterly insane; that is, when the
bourgeois parties adopted a hostile attitude toward every demand of a social
character. Their simple, narrow-minded rejection of all attempts to better
working conditions, to introduce safety devices on machines, to prohibit
child labor and protect the woman, at least in the months when she was bearing
the future national comrade under her heart, contributed to drive the masses
into the net of Social Democracy which gratefully snatched at every case
of such a disgraceful attitude. Never can our political bourgeoisie make
good its sins in this direction, for by resisting all attempts to do away
with social abuses, they sowed hatred and seemed to justify even the assertions
of the mortal enemies of the entire nation, to the effect that only the
Social Democratic Party represented the interests of the working peopleThus, to begin with, they created the moral basis for the actual
existence of the trade unions, the organization which has always been the
most effective pander to the political party.In my Viennese years I was forced, whether I liked it or not,
to take a position on the trade unions.Since I regarded them as an inseparable ingredient of the Social
Democratic Party as such, my decision was instantaneous and-mistaken.I flatly rejected them without thinking.And in this infinite]y important question, as in so many others,
Fate itself became my instructor.The result was a reversal of my first judgment.By my twentieth year I had learned to distinguish between a
union as a means of defending the general social rights of the wage-earner,
and obtaining better living conditions for him as an individual, and the
trade union as an instrument of the party in the political class struggle.The fact that Social Democracy understood the enormous importance
of the trade-union movement assured it of this instrument and hence of success;
the fact that the bourgeoisie were not aware of this cost them their political
position. They thought they could stop a logical development by means of
an impertinent 'rejection,' but in reality they only forced it into illogical
channels. For to call the trade-union movement in itself unpatriotic is
nonsense and untrue to boot. Rather the contrary is true. If trade-union
activity strives and succeeds in bettering the lot of a class which is one
of the basic supports of the nation, its work is not only not anti-patriotic
or seditious, but 'national' in the truest sense of the word. For in this
way it helps to create the social premises without which a general national
education is unthinkable. It wins the highest merit by eliminating social
cankers, attacking intellectual as well as physical infections, and thus
helping to contribute to the general health of the body politic.Consequently, the question of their necessity is really superfluous.As long as there are employers with little social understanding
or a deficient sense of justice and propriety, it is not only the right
but the duty of their employees, who certainly constitute a part of our
nationality, to protect the interests of the general public against the
greed and unreason of the individual; for the preservation of loyalty and
faith in z social group is just as much to the interest of a nation as the
preservation of the people's health.Both of these are seriously menaced by unworthy employers who
do not feel themselves to be members of the national community as a whole.
From the disastrous effects of their greed or ruthlessness grow profound
evils for the future.To eliminate the causes of such a development is to do a service
to the nation and in no sense the opposite.Let no one say that every individual is free to draw the consequences
from an actual or supposed injustice; in other words, to leave his job.
No ! This is shadow-boxing and must be regarded as an attempt to divert
attention. Either the elimination of bad, unsocial conditions serves the
interest of the nation or it does not. If it does, the struggle against
then must be carried on with weapons which offer the hope of success. The
individual worker, however, is never in a position to defend himself against
the power of the great industrialist, for in such matters it cannot be superior
justice that conquers (if that were recognized, the whole struggle would
stop from lack of cause)-no, what matters here is superior power. Otherwise
the sense of justice alone would bring the struggle to a fair conclusion,
or, more accurately speaking, the struggle could never arise.No, if the unsocial or unworthy treatment of men calls for resistance,
this struggle, as long as no legal judicial authorities have been created
for the elimination of these evils, can only be decided by superior power.
And this makes it obvious that the power of the employer concentrated in
a single person can only be countered by the mass of employees banded into
a single person, if the possibility of a victory is not to be renounced
in advance.Thus, trade-union organization can lead to a strengthening of
the social idea in its practical effects on daily life, and thereby to an
elimination of irritants which are constantly giving cause for dissatisfaction
and complaints.If this is not the case, it is to a great extent the fault of
those who have been able to place obstacles in the path of any legal regulation
of social evils or thwart them by means of their political influence.Proportionately as the political bourgeoisie did not understand,
or rather did not want to understand, the importance of trade-union organization,
and resisted it, the Social Democrats took possession of the contested movement.
Thus, far-sightedly it created a firm foundation which on several critical
occasions has stood up when all other supports failed. In this way the intrinsic
purpose was gradually submerged, making place for new aims.It never occurred to the Social Democrats to limit the movement
they had thus captured to its original task.No, that was far from their intention.In a few decades the weapon for defending the social rights
of man had, in their experienced hands? become an instrument for the destruction
of the national economy. And they did not let themselves be hindered in
the least by the interests of the workers. For in politics, as in other
fields, the use of economic pressure always permits blackmail, as long as
the necessary unscrupulousness is present on the one side, and sufficient
sheeplike patience on the other.Something which in this case was true of both sidesBy the turn of the century, the trade-union movement had
ceased to serve its former function. From year to year it had entered more
and more into the sphere of Social Democratic politics and finally had no
use except as a battering-ram in the class struggle. Its purpose was to
cause the collapse of the whole arduously constructed economic edifice by
persistent blows, thus, the more easily, after removing its economic foundations,
to prepare the same lot for the edifice of state. Less and less attention
was paid to defending the real needs of the working class, and finally political
expediency made it seem undesirable to relieve the social or cultural miseries
of the broad masses at all, for otherwise there was a risk that these masses,
satisfied in their desires could no longer be used forever as docile shock
troops.The leaders of the class struggle looked on this development
with such dark foreboding and dread that in the end they rejected any really
beneficial social betterment out of hand, and actually attacked it with
the greatest determination.And they were never at a loss for an explanation of a line of
behavior which seemed so inexplicable.By screwing the demands higher and higher, they made their possible
fulfillment seem so trivial and unimportant that they were able at all times
to tell the masses that they were dealing with nothing but a diabolical
attempt to weaken, if possible in fact to paralyze, the offensive power
of the working class in the cheapest way, by such a ridiculous satisfaction
of the most elementary rights. In view of the great masses' small capacity
for thought, we need not be surprised at the success of these methods.The bourgeois camp was indignant at this obvious insincerity
of Social Democratic tactics, but did not draw from it the slightest inference
with regard to their own conduct. The Social Democrats' fear of really raising
the working class out of the depths of their cultural and social misery
should have inspired the greatest exertions in this very direction, thus
gradually wrestling the weapon from the hands of the advocates of the class
struggle.This, however, was not done.Instead of attacking and seizing the enemy's position, the bourgeoisie
preferred to let themselves
be pressed to the wall and finally had recourse to utterly inadequate makeshifts,
which remained ineffectual because they came too late, and, moreover, were
easy to reject because they were too insignificant. Thus. in reality, everything
remained as before, except that the discontent was greater.Like a menacing storm-cloud, the ' free trade union ' hung,
even then, over the political horizon and the existence of the individual.It was one of the most frightful instruments of terror against
the security and independence of the national economy, the solidity of the
state, and personal freedom.And chiefly this was what made the concept of democracy a sordid
and ridiculous phrase, and held up brotherhood to everlasting scorn in the
words: 'And if our comrade you won't be, we'll bash your head in-one, two,
three ! 'And that was how I became acquainted with this friend of humanity.
In the course of the years my view was broadened and deepened, but I have
had no need to change it.
The greater insight I gathered into the external character of Social Democracy,
the greater became my longing to comprehend the inner core of this doctrine.
The official party literature was not much use for this purpose. In so far
as it deals with economic questions, its assertions and proofs are false;
in so far as it treats of political aims, it lies. Moreover, I was inwardly
repelled by the newfangled pettifogging phraseology and the style in which
it was written. With an enormous expenditure of words, unclear in content
or incomprehensible as to meaning, they stammer an endless hodgepodge of
phrases purportedly as witty as in reality they are meaningless. Only our
decadent metropolitan bohemians can feel at home in this maze of reasoning
and cull an 'inner experience' from this dung-heap of literary dadaism,
supported by the proverbial modesty of a section of our people who always
detect profound wisdom in what is most incomprehensible to them personally.
However, by balancing the theoretical untruth and nonsense of this doctrine
with the reality of the phenomenon, I gradually obtained a clear picture
of its intrinsic will.At such times I was overcome by gloomy foreboding and malignant
fear. Then I saw before me a doctrine, comprised of egotism and hate, which
can lead to victory pursuant to mathematical laws, but in so doing must
put an end to humanity.Meanwhile, I had learned to understand the connection between
this doctrine of destruction and the nature of a people of which, up to
that time, I had known next to nothing.Only a knowledge of the Jews provides the key with which to
comprehend the inner, and consequently real, aims of Social Democracy.The erroneous conceptions of the aim and meaning of this party
fall from our eyes like veils, once we come to know this people, and from
the fog and mist of social phrases rises the leering grimace of Marxism.Today it is difficult, if not impossible, for me to say when
the word 'Jew ' first gave me ground for special thoughts. At home I do
not remember having heard the word during my father's lifetime. I believe
that the old gentleman would have regarded any special emphasis on this
term as cultural backwardness. In the course of his life he had arrived
at more or less cosmopolitan views which, despite his pronounced national
sentiments, not only remained intact, but also affected me to some extent.Likewise at school I found no occasion which could have led
me to change this inherited picture.At the Realschule, to be sure, I did meet one Jewish boy who
was treated by all of us with caution, but only because various experiences
had led us to doubt his discretion and we did not particularly trust him;
but neither I nor the others had any thoughts on the matter.Not until my fourteenth or fifteenth year did I begin to come
across the word 'Jew,' with any frequency, partly in connection with political
discussions. This filled me with a mild distaste, and I could not rid myself
of an unpleasant feeling that always came over me whenever religious quarrels
occurred in my presence.At that time I did not think anything else of the question.There were few Jews in Linz. In the course of the centuries
their outward appearance had become Europeanized and had taken on a human
look; in fact, I even took them for Germans. The absurdity of this idea
did not dawn on me because I saw no distinguishing feature but the strange
religion. The fact that they had, as I believed, been persecuted on this
account sometimes almost turned my distaste at unfavorable remarks about
them into horror.Thus far I did not so much as suspect the existence of an organized
opposition to the Jews.Then I came to Vienna.Preoccupied by the abundance of my impressions in the architectural
field, oppressed by the hardship of my own lot, I gained at first no insight
into the inner stratification of the people in this gigantic city. Notwithstanding
that Vienna in those days counted nearly two hundred thousand Jews among
its two million inhabitants, I did not see them. In the first few weeks
my eyes and my senses were not equal to the flood of values and ideas. Not
until calm gradually returned and the agitated picture began to clear did
I look around me more carefully in my new world, and then among other things
I encountered the Jewish question.I cannot maintain that the way in which I became acquainted
with them struck me as particularly pleasant. For the Jew was still characterized
for me by nothing but his religion, and therefore, on grounds of human tolerance,
I maintained my rejection of religious attacks in this case as in others.
Consequently, the tone, particularly that of the Viennese antiSemitic press,
seemed to me unworthy of the cultural tradition of a great nation. I was
oppressed by the memory of certain occurrences in the Middle Ages, which
I should not have liked to see repeated. Since the newspapers in question
did not enjoy an outstanding reputation (the reason for this, at that time,
I myself did not precisely know), I regarded them more as the products of
anger and envy than the results of 4 principled though perhaps mistaken,
point of view.I was reinforced in this opinion by what seemed to me the far
more dignified form in which the really big papers answered all these attacks,
or, what seemed to me even more praiseworthy, failed to mention them; in
other words, simply killed them with silence.I zealously read the so-called world press (Neue Freie Presse,
Wiener Tageblatt, etc.) and was amazed at the scope of what they offered
their readers and the objectivity of individual articles. I respected the
exalted tone, though the flamboyance of the style sometimes caused me inner
dissatisfaction, or even struck me unpleasantly. Yet this may have been
due to the rhythm of life in the whole metropolis.Since in those days I saw Vienna in that light, I thought myself
justified in accepting this explanation of mine as a valid excuse.But what sometimes repelled me was the undignified fashion in
which this press curried favor with the Court. There was scarcely an event
in the Hofburg which was not imparted to the readers either with raptures
of enthusiasm or plaintive emotion, and all this to-do, particularly when
it dealt with the 'wisest monarch' of all time, almost reminded me of the
mating cry of a mountain cock.To me the whole thing seemed artificial.In my eyes it was a blemish upon liberal democracy.To curry favor with this Court and in such indecent forms was
to sacrifice the dignity of the nation.This was the first shadow to darken my intellectual relationship
with the ' big ' Viennese press.As I had always done before, I continued in Vienna to follow
events in Germany with ardent zeal, quite regardless whether they were political
or cultural. With pride and admiration, I compared the rise of the Reich
with the wasting away of the Austrian state. If events in the field of foreign
politics filled me, by and large, with undivided joy, the less gratifying
aspects of internal life often aroused anxiety and gloom. a he struggle
which at that time was being carried on against William II did not meet
with my approval. I regarded him not only as the German Emperor, but first
and foremost as the creator of a German fleet. The restrictions of speech
imposed on the Kaiser by the Reichstag angered me greatly because they emanated
from a source which in my opinion really hadn't a leg to stand on, since
in a single session these parliamentarian imbeciles gabbled more nonsense
than a whole dynasty of emperors, including its very weakest numbers, could
ever have done in centuries.I was outraged that in a state where every idiot not only claimed
the right to criticize, but was given a seat in the Reichstag and let loose
upon the nation as a 'lawgiver,' the man who bore the imperial crown had
to take 'reprimands' from the greatest babblers' club of all time.But I was even more indignant that the same Viennese press which
made the most obsequious bows to every rickety horse in the Court, and flew
into convulsions of joy if he accidentally swished his tail, should, with
supposed concern, yet, as it seemed to me, ill-concealed malice, express
its criticisms of the German Kaiser. Of course it had no intention of interfering
with conditions within the German Reich-oh, no, God forbid-but by placing
its finger on these wounds in the friendliest way, it was fulfilling the
duty imposed by the spirit of the mutual alliance, and, conversely, fulfilling
the requirements of journalistic truth, etc. And now it was poking this
finger around in the wound to its heart's content.In such cases the blood rose to my head.It was this which caused me little by little to view the big
papers with greater caution.And on one such occasion I was forced to recognize that one
of the anti-Semitic papers, the Deutsches Volksblatt, behaved more decently.Another thing that got on my nerves was the loathsome cult for
France which the big press, even then, carried on. A man couldn't help feeling
ashamed to be a German when he saw these saccharine hymns of praise to the
'great cultural nation.' This wretched licking of France's boots more than
once made me throw down one of these 'world newspapers.' And on such occasions
I sometimes picked up the Volksblatt, which, to be sure, seemed to me much
smaller, but in these matters somewhat more appetizing. I was not in agreement
with the sharp antiSemitic tone, but from time to time I read arguments
which gave me some food for thought.At all events, these occasions slowly made me acquainted with
the man and the movement, which in those days guided Vienna's destinies:
Dr. Karl Lueger I and the Christian Social Party.When I arrived in Vienna, I was hostile to both of them.The man and the movement seemed 'reactionary' in my eyes.My common sense of justice, however, forced me to change this
judgment in proportion as I had occasion to become acquainted with the man
and his work; and slowly my fair judgment turned to unconcealed admiration.
Today, more than ever, I regard this man as the greatest German mayor of
all times.How many of my basic principles were upset by this change in
my attitude toward the Christian Social movement!My views with regard to anti-Semitism thus succumbed to the
passage of time, and this was my greatest transformation of all.It cost me the greatest inner soul struggles, and only after
months of battle between my reason and my sentiments did my reason begin
to emerge victorious. Two years later, my sentiment had followed my reason,
and from then on became its most loyal guardian and sentinel.At the time of this bitter struggle between spiritual education
and cold reason, the visual instruction of the Vienna streets had performed
invaluable services. There came a time when I no longer, as in the first
days, wandered blindly through the mighty city; now with open eyes I saw
not only the buildings but also the people.Once, as I was strolling through the Inner City, I suddenly
encountered an apparition in a black caftan and black hair locks. Is this
a Jew? was my first thought.For, to be sure, they had not looked like that in Linz. I observed
the man furtively and cautiously, but the longer I stared at this foreign
face, scrutinizing feature for feature, the more my first question assumed
a new form:Is this a German?As always in such cases, I now began to try to relieve my doubts
by books. For a few hellers I bought the first antiSemitic pamphlets of
my life. Unfortunately, they all proceeded from the supposition that in
principle the reader knew or even understood the Jewish question to a certain
degree. Besides, the tone for the most part was such that doubts again arose
in me, due in part to the dull and amazingly unscientific arguments favoring
the thesis.I relapsed for weeks at a time, once even for months.The whole thing seemed to me so monstrous, the accusations so
boundless, that, tormented by the fear of doing injustice, I again became
anxious and uncertain.Yet I could no longer very well doubt that the objects of my
study were not Germans of a special religion, but a people in themselves;
for since I had begun to concern myself with this question and to take cognizance
of the Jews, Vienna appeared to me in a different light than before. Wherever
I went, I began to see Jews, and the more I saw, the more sharply they became
distinguished in my eyes from the rest of humanity. Particularly the Inner
City and the districts north of the Danube Canal swarmed with a people which
even outwardly had lost all resemblance to Germans.And whatever doubts I may still have nourished were finally
dispelled by the attitude of a portion of the Jews themselves.Among them there was a great movement, quite extensive in Vienna,
which came out sharply in confirmation of the national character of the
Jews: this was the Zionists.It looked to be sure, as though only a part of the Jews approved
this viewpoint, while the great majority condemned and inwardly rejected
such a formulation. But when examined more closely, this appearance dissolved
itself into an unsavory vapor of pretexts advanced for mere reasons of expedience,
not to say lies. For the so-called liberal Jews did not reject the Zionists
as non-Jews, but only as Jews with an impractical, perhaps even dangerous,
way of publicly avowing their Jewishness.Intrinsically they remained unalterably of one piece.In a short time this apparent struggle between Zionistic and
liberal Jews disgusted me; for it was false through and through, founded
on lies and scarcely in keeping with the moral elevation and purity always
claimed by this people.The cleanliness of this people, moral and otherwise, I must
say, is a point in itself. By their very exterior you could tell that these
were no lovers of water, and, to your distress, you often knew it with your
eyes closed. Later I often grew sick to my stomach from the smell of these
caftan-wearers. Added to this, there was their unclean dress and their generally
unheroic appearance.All this could scarcely be called very attractive; but it became
positively repulsive when, in addition to their physical uncleanliness,
you discovered the moral stains on this 'chosen people.'In a short time I was made more thoughtful than ever by my slowly
rising insight into the type of activity carried on by the Jews in certain
fields.
Was there any form of filth or profligacy, particularly in cultural life,
without at least one Jew involved in it?If you cut even cautiously into such an abscess, you found,
like a maggot in a rotting body, often dazzled by the sudden light-a kike!What had to be reckoned heavily against the Jews in my eyes
was when I became acquainted with their activity in the press, art, literature,
and the theater. All the unctuous reassurances helped little or nothing
It sufficed to look at a billboard, to study the names of the men behind
the horrible trash they advertised, to make you hard for a long time to
come. This was pestilence, spiritual pestilence, worse than the Black Death
of olden times, and the people was being infected with it! It goes without
saying that the lower the intellectual level of one of these art manufacturers,
the more unlimited his fertility will be, and the scoundrel ends up like
a garbage separator, splashing his filth in the face of humanity. And bear
in mind that there is no limit to their number; bear in mind that for one
Goethe Nature easily can foist on the world ten thousand of these scribblers
who poison men's souls like germ-carriers of the worse sort, on their fellow
men.It was terrible, but not to be overlooked, that precisely the
Jew, in tremendous numbers, seemed chosen by Nature for this shameful calling.Is this why the Jews are called the 'chosen people'?I now began to examine carefully the names of all the creators
of unclean products in public artistic life. The result was less and less
favorable for my previous attitude toward the Jews. Regardless how my sentiment
might resists my reason was forced to draw its conclusions.The fact that nine tenths of all literary filth, artistic trash,
and theatrical idiocy can be set to the account of a people, constituting
hardly one hundredth of all the country's inhabitants, could simply not
be tanked away; it was the plain truth.And I now began to examine my beloved 'world press' from this
point of view.And the deeper I probed, the more the object of my former admiration
shriveled. The style became more and more unbearable; I could not help rejecting
the content as inwardly shallow and banal; the objectivity of exposition
now seemed to me more akin to lies than honest truth; and the writers were-Jews.A thousand things which I had hardly seen before now struck
my notice, and others, which had previously given me food for thought, I
now learned to grasp and understand.I now saw the liberal attitude of this press in a different
light; the lofty tone in which it answered attacks and its method of I killing
them with silence now revealed itself to me as a trick as clever as it was
treacherous; the transfigured raptures of their theatrical critics were
always directed at Jewish writers, and their disapproval never struck anyone
but Germans. The gentle pinpricks against William II revealed its methods
by their persistency, and so did its commendation of French culture and
civilization. The trashy content of the short story now appeared to me |
as outright indecency, and in the language I detected the accents 0 of a
foreign people; the sense of the whole thing was so obviously hostile to
Germanism that this could only have been intentional.But who had an interest in this?Was all this a mere accident?Gradually I became uncertain.The development was accelerated by insights which I gained into
a number of other matters. I am referring to the general view of 1. ethics
and morals which was quite openly exhibited by a large part of the Jews,
and the practical application of which could be seen.Here again the streets provided an object lesson of a sort which
was sometimes positively evil.The relation of the Jews to prostitution and, even more, to
the white-slave traffic, could be studied in Vienna as perhaps in no other
city of Western Europe, with the possible exception of the southern French
ports. If you walked at night through the streets and alleys of Leopoldstadt
at every step you witnessed proceedings which remained concealed from the
majority of the German people until the War gave the soldiers on the eastern
front occasion to see similar things, or, better expressed, forced them
to see them.When thus for the first time I recognized the Jew as the cold-hearted,
shameless, and calculating director of this revolting vice traffic in the
scum of the big city, a cold shudder ran down my back.But then a flame flared up within me. I no longer avoided discussion
of the Jewish question; no, now I sought it. And when I learned to look
for the Jew in all branches of cultural and artistic life and its various
manifestations, I suddenly encountered him in a place where I would least
have expected to find him.When I recognized the Jew as the leader of the Social Democracy,
the scales dropped from my eyes. A long soul struggle had reached its conclusion.Even in my daily relations with my fellow workers, I observed
the amazing adaptability with which they adopted different positions on
the same question, sometimes within an interval of a few days, sometimes
in only a few hours. It was hard for me to understand how people who, when
spoken to alone, possessed some sensible opinions, suddenly lost them as
soon as they came under the influence of the masses. It was often enough
to make one despair. When, after hours of argument, I was convinced that
now at last I had broken the ice or cleared up some absurdity, and was beginning
to rejoice at my success, on the next day to my disgust I had to begin all
over again; it had all been in vain. Like an eternal pendulum their opinions
seemed to swing back again and again to the old madness.All this I could understand: that they were dissatisfied with
their lot and cursed the Fate which often struck them so harshly; that they
hated the employers who seemed to them the heartless bailiffs of Fate; that
they cursed the authorities who in their eyes were without feeling for their
situation; that they demonstrated against food prices and carried their
demands into the streets: this much could be understood without recourse
to reason. But what inevitably remained incomprehensible was the boundless
hatred they heaped upon their own nationality, despising its greatness,
besmirching its history, and dragging its great men into the gutter.This struggle against their own species, their own clan, their
own homeland, was as senseless as it was incomprehensible. It was unnatural.It was possible to cure them temporarily of this vice, but only
for days or at most weeks. If later you met the man you thought you had
converted, he was just the same as before.His old unnatural state had regained full possession of him.I gradually became aware that the Social Democratic press
was directed predominantly by Jews; yet I did not attribute any special
significance to this circumstance, since conditions were exactly the same
in the other papers. Yet one fact seemed conspicuous: there was not one
paper with Jews working on it which could have been regarded as truly national
according to my education and way of thinking.I swallowed my disgust and tried to read this type of Marxist
press production, but my revulsion became so unlimited in so doing that
I endeavored to become more closely acquainted with the men who manufactured
these compendiums of knavery.From the publisher down, they were all Jews.I took all the Social Democratic pamphlets I could lay hands
on and sought the names of their authors: Jews. I noted the names of the
leaders; by far the greatest part were likewise members of the 'chosen people,'
whether they were representatives in the Reichsrat or trade-union secretaries,
the heads of organizations or street agitators. It was always the same gruesome
picture. The names of the Austerlitzes, Davids, Adlers, Ellenbogens, etc.,
will remain forever graven in my memory. One thing had grown dear to me:
the party with whose petty representatives I had been carrying on the most
violent struggle for months was, as to leadership, almost exclusively in
the hands of a foreign people; for, to my deep and joyful satisfaction,
I had at last come to the conclusion that the Jew was no German.Only now did I become thoroughly acquainted with the seducer
of our people.A single year of my sojourn in Vienna had sufficed to imbue
me with the conviction that no worker could be so stubborn that he would
not in the end succumb to better knowledge and better explanations. Slowly
I had become an expert in their own doctrine and used it as a weapon in
the struggle for my own profound conviction.Success almost always favored my side.The great masses could be saved, if only with the gravest sacrifice
in time and patience.But a Jew could never be parted from his opinions.At that time I was still childish enough to try to make the
madness of their doctrine clear to them; in my little circle I talked my
tongue sore and my throat hoarse, thinking I would inevitably succeed in
convincing them how ruinous their Marxist madness was; but what I accomplished
was often the opposite. It seemed as though their increased understanding
of the destructive effects of Social Democratic theories and their results
only reinforced their determination.The more I argued with them, the better I came to know their
dialectic. First they counted on the stupidity of their adversary, and then,
when there was no other way out, they themselves simply played stupid. If
all this didn't help, they pretended not to understand, or, if challenged,
they changed the subject in a hurry, quoted platitudes which, if you accepted
them, they immediately related to entirely different matters, and then,
if again attacked, gave ground and pretended not to know exactly what you
were talking about. Whenever you tried to attack one of these apostles,
your hand closed on a jelly-like slime which divided up and poured through
your fingers, but in the next moment collected again. But if you really
struck one of these fellows so telling a blow that, observed by the audience,
he couldn't help but agree, and if you believed that this had taken you
at least one step forward, your amazement was great the next day. The Jew
had not the slightest recollection of the day before, he rattled off his
same old nonsense as though nothing at all had happened, and, if indignantly
challenged, affected amazement; he couldn't remember a thing, except that
he had proved the correctness of his assertions the previous day.Sometimes I stood there thunderstruck.I didn't know what to be more amazed at: the agility of their
tongues or their virtuosity at lying.Gradually I began to hate them.All this had but one good side: that in proportion as the real
leaders or at least the disseminators of Social Democracy came within my
vision, my love for my people inevitably grew. For who, in view of the diabolical
craftiness of these seducers, could damn the luckless victims? How hard
it was, even for me, to get the better of thus race of dialectical liars
! And how futile was such success in dealing with people who twist the truth
in your mouth who without so much as a blush disavow the word they have
just spoken, and in the very next minute take credit for it after all.No. The better acquainted I became with the Jew, the more forgiving
I inevitably became toward the worker. In my eyes the gravest fault was
no longer with him, but with all those who did not regard it as worth the
trouble to have mercy on him, with iron righteousness giving the son of
the people his just deserts, and standing the seducer and corrupter up against
the wall.Inspired by the experience of daily life, I now began to track
down the sources of the Marxist doctrine. Its effects had become clear to
me in individual cases; each day its success was apparent to my attentive
eyes, and, with some exercise of my imagination, I was able to picture the
consequences. The only remaining question was whether the result of their
action in its ultimate form had existed in the mind's eye of the creators,
or whether they themselves were the victims of an error.I felt that both were possible.In the one case it was the duty of every thinking man to force
himself to the forefront of the ilI-starred movement, thus perhaps averting
catastrophe; in the other, however, the original founders of this plague
of the nations must have been veritable devils- for only in the brain of
a monster-not that of a man-could the plan of an organization assume form
and meaning, whose activity must ultimately result in the collapse of human
civilization and the consequent devastation of the world.In this case the only remaining hope was struggle, struggle
with all the weapons which the human spirit, reason, and will can devise,
regardless on which side of the scale Fate should lay its blessing.Thus I began to make myself familiar with the founders of this
doctrine, in order to study the foundations of the movement. If I reached
my goal more quickly than at first I had perhaps ventured to believe, it
was thanks to my newly acquired, though at that time not very profound,
knowledge of the Jewish question. This alone enabled me to draw a practical
comparison between the reality and the theoretical flim-flam of the founding
fathers of Social Democracy, since it taught me to understand the language
of the Jewish people, who speak in order to conceal or at least to veil
their thoughts; their real aim is not therefore to be found in the lines
themselves, but slumbers well concealed between them.For or me this was the time of the greatest spiritual upheaval
I have ever had to go through.I had ceased to be a weak-kneed cosmopolitan and become an anti-Semite.Just once more-and this was the last time-fearful, oppressive
thoughts came to me in profound anguish.When over long periods of human history I scrutinized the activity
of the Jewish people, suddenly there rose up in me the fearful question
whether inscrutable Destiny, perhaps Or reasons unknown to us poor mortals,
did not with eternal and immutable resolve, desire the final victory of
this little nation.Was it possible that the earth had been promised as a reward
to this people which lives only for this earth?Have we an objective right to struggle for our self-preservation,
or is this justified only subjectively within ourselves?As I delved more deeply into the teachings of Marxism and thus
in tranquil clarity submitted the deeds of the Jewish people to contemplation,
Fate itself gave me its answer.The Jewish doctrine of Marxism rejects the aristocratic principle
of Nature and replaces the eternal privilege of power and strength by the
mass of numbers and their dead weight. Thus it denies the value of personality
in man, contests the significance of nationality and race, and thereby withdraws
from humanity the premise of its existence and its culture. As a foundation
of the universe, this doctrine would bring about the end of any order intellectually
conceivable to man. And as, in this greatest of ail recognizable organisms,
the result of an application of such a law could only be chaos, on earth
it could only be destruction for the inhabitants of this planet.If, with the help of his Marxist creed, the Jew is victorious
over the other peoples of the world, his crown will be the funeral wreath
of humanity and this planet will, as it did thousands l of years ago, move
through the ether devoid of men.Eternal Nature inexorably avenges the infringement of her commands.Hence today I believe that I am acting in accordance with the
will of the Almighty Creator: by defending myself against the Jew, I am
fighting for the work of the Lord.


TODAY it is my conviction that in general, aside from cases
of unusual talent, a man should not engage in public political activity
before his thirtieth year. He should not do so, because up to this time,
as a rule, he is engaged in molding a general platform, on the basis of
which he proceeds to examine the various political problems and finally
establishes his own position on them. Only after he has acquired such a
basic philosophy, and the resultant firmness of outlook on the special problems
of the day, is he, inwardly at least, mature enough to be justified in partaking
in the political leadership of the general public.Otherwise he runs the risk of either having to change his former
position on essential questions, or, contrary to his better knowledge and
understanding, of clinging to a view which reason and conviction have long
since discarded. In the former case this is most embarrassing to him personally,
since, what with his own vacillations, he cannot justifiably expect the
faith of his adherents to follow him with the same unswerving firmness as
before; for those led by him, on the other hand, such a reversal on the
part of the leader means perplexity and not rarely a certain feeling of
shame toward those whom they hitherto opposed. In the second case, there
occurs a thing which, particularly today, often confronts us: in the same
measure as the leader ceases to believe in what he says, his arguments become
shallow and flat, but he tries to make up for it by vileness in his choice
of means. While he himself has given up all idea of fighting seriously for
his political revelations (a man does not die for something which he himself
does not believe in), his demands on his supporters become correspondingly
greater and more shameless until he ends up by sacrificing the last shred
of leadership and turning into a 'politician; in other words, the kind of
man whose onlv real conviction is lack of conviction, combined with offensive
impertinence and an art of lying, often developed to the point of complete
shamelessness.If to the misfortune of decent people such a character gets
into a parliament, we may as well realize at once that the essence of his
politics will from now on consist in nothing but an heroic struggle for
the permanent possession of his feeding-bottle for himself and his family.
The more his wife and children depend on it, the more tenaciously he will
fight for his mandate. This alone will make every other man with political
instincts his personal enemy; in every new movement he will scent the possible
beginning of his end, and in every man of any greatness the danger which
menaces him through that man.I shall have more to say about this type of parliamentary bedbug.Even a man of thirty will have much to learn in the course of
his life, but this will only be to supplement and fill in the framework
provided him by the philosophy he has basically adopted When he learns,
his learning will not have to be a revision of principle, but a supplementary
study, and his supporters will not have to choke down the oppressive feeling
that they have hitherto been falsely instructed by him. On the contrary:
the visible organic growth of the leader will give them satisfaction, for
when he learns, he will only be deepening their own philosophy. And this
in their eyes will be a proof for the correctness of the views they have
hitherto held.
A leader who must depart from the platform of his general philosophy as
such, because he recognizes it to be false, behaves with decency only if,
in recognizing the error of his previous insight, he is prepared to draw
the ultimate consequence. In such a case he must, at the very least, renounce
the public exercise of any further political activity. For since in matters
of basic knowledge he has once succumbed to an error, there is a possibility
that this will happen a second time. And in no event does he retain the
right to continue claiming, not to mention demanding, the confidence of
his fellow citizens.How little regard is taken of such decency today is attested
by the general degeneracy of the rabble which contemporaneously feel justified
in 'going into' politics.
Hardly a one of them is fit for it.I had carefully avoided any public appearance, though I think
that I studied politics more closely than many other men. Only in the smallest
groups did I speak of the things which inwardly moved or attracted me. This
speaking in the narrowest circles had many good points: I learned to orate
less, but to know people with their opinions and objections that were often
so boundlessly primitive. And I trained myself, without losing the time
and occasion for the continuance of my own education. It is certain that
nowhere else in Germany was the opportunity for this so favorable as in
Vienna.General political thinking in the old Danubian monarchy was
just then broader and more comprehensive in scope than in old Germany, excluding
parts of Prussia, Hamburg, and the North Sea coast, at the same period.
In this case, to be sure, I understand, under the designation of 'Austria,'
that section of the great Habsburg Empire which, in consequence of its German
settlement, not only was the historic cause of the very formation of this
state, but whose population, moreover, exclusively demonstrated that power
which for so many centuries was able to give this structure, so artificial
in the political sense, its inner cultural life. As time progressed, the
existence and future of this state came to depend more and more on the preservation
of this nuclear cell of the Empire.If the old hereditary territories were the heart of the Empire
continually driving fresh blood into the circulatory stream of political
and cultural life, Vienna was the brain and will in one
Its mere outward appearance justified one in attributing to this city the
power to reign as a unifying queen amid such a conglomeration of peoples,
thus by the radiance of her own beauty causing us to forget the ugly symptoms
of old age in the structure as a whole.The Empire might quiver and quake beneath the bloody battles
of the different nationalities, yet foreigners, and especially Germans,
saw only the charming countenance of this city. Wblt made the deception
all the greater was that Vienna at that time seemed engaged in what was
perhaps its last and greatest visible revival. Under the rule of a truly
gifted mayor, the venerable residence of the Emperors of the old regime
awoke once more to a :-niraculous youth. The last great German to be born
in the ranks of the people who had colonized the Ostmark was not officially
numbered among socalled Statesmen'; but as mayor of Vienna, this capital
and imperial residence,' Dr. Lueger conjured up one amazing achievement
after another in, we may say, every field of economic and cultural municipal
politics, thereby strengthening the heart of the whole Empire, and indirectly
becoming a statesman greater than all the so-called 'diplomats' of the timeIf the conglomeration of nations called 'Austria' nevertheless
perished in the end, this does not detract in the least from the political
ability of the Germans in the old Ostmark, but was the necessary result
of the impossibility of permanently maintaining a state of fifty million
people of different nationalities by means of ten million people, unless
certain definite prerequisites were established in time.The ideas of the German-Austrian were more than grandiose.He had always been accustomed to living in a great empire and
had never lost his feeling for the tasks bound up with it. He was the only
one in this state who, beyond the narrow boundaries of the crown lands,
still saw the boundaries of the Reich; indeed, when Fate finally parted
him from the common fatherland, he kept on striving to master the gigantic
task and preserve for the German people what his fathers had once wrested
from the East in endless struggles. In this connection it should be borne
in mind that this had to be done with divided energy; for the heart and
memory of the best never ceased to feel for the common mother country, and
only a remnant was left for the homeland.The general horizon of the German-Austrian was in itself comparatively
broad. His economic connections frequently embraced almost the entire multiform
Empire. Nearly all the big business enterprises were in his hands; the directing
personnel, both technicians and officials, were in large part provided by
him. He was also in charge of foreign trade in so far as the Jews had not
laid their hands on this domain, which they have always seized for their
own. Politically, he alone held the state together. Military service alone
cast him far beyond the narrow boundaries of his homeland. The German-Austrian
recruit might join a German regiment, but the regiment itself might equally
well be in Herzegovina, Vienna, or Galicia. The officers' corps was still
German, the higher officials predominantly so. Finally, art and science
were German. Aside from the trash of the more modern artistic development,
which a nation of Negroes might just as well have produced, the German alone
possessed and disseminated a truly artistic attitude. In music, architecture,
sculpture, and painting, Vienna was the source supplying the entire dual
monarchy in inexhaustible abundance, without ever seeming to go dry itself.Finally, the Germans directed the entire foreign policy if we
disregard a small number of Hungarians.And yet any attempt to preserve this Empire was in vain, for
the most essential premise was lacking.For the Austrian state of nationalities there was only one possibility
of overcoming the centrifugal forces of the individual nations. Either the
state was centrally governed hence internally organized along the same lines.
or it was altogether inconceivable.At various lucid moments this insight dawned on the ' supreme
' authority. But as a rule it was soon forgotten or shelved as difficult
of execution. Any thought of a more federative organization of the Empire
was doomed to failure owing to the lack of a strong political germ-cell
of outstanding power. Added to this were the internal conditions of the
Austrian state which differed essentially from the German Empire of Bismarck.
In Germany it was only a question of overcoming political conditions, since
there was always a common cultural foundation. Above all, the Reich, aside
from little foreign splinters, embraced members of only one people.In Austria the opposite was the case.Here the individual provinces, aside from Hungary, lacked any
political memory of their own greatness, or it had been erased by the sponge
of time, or at least blurred and obscured. In the period when the principle
of nationalities was developing, however, national forces rose up in the
various provinces, and to counteract them was all the more difficult as
on the rim of the monarchy national states began to form whose populations,
racially equivalent or related to the Austrian national splinters, were
now able to exert a greater power of attraction than, conversely, remained
possible for the GermanAustrian.Even Vienna could not forever endure this struggle.With the development of Budapest into a big city, she had for
the first time a rival whose task was no longer to hold the entire monarchy
together, but rather to strengthen a part of it. In a short time Prague
was to follow her example, then Lemberg, Laibach, etc. With the rise of
these former provincial cities to national capitals of individual provinces,
centers formed for more or less independent cultural life in these provinces.
And only then did the politico-national instincts obtain their spiritual
foundation and depth. The time inevitably approached when these dynamic
forces of the individual peoples would grow sponger than the force of common
interests, and that would be the end of Austria.Since the death of Joseph II the course of this development
was clearly discernible. Its rapidity depended on a series of factors which
in part lay in the monarchy itself and in part were the result of the Empire's
momentary position on foreign policy.
If the fighf for the preservation of this state was to be taken up and carried
on in earnest, only a ruthless and persistent policy of centralization could
lead to the goal. First of all, the purely formal cohesion had to be emphasized
by the establishment in principle of a uniform official language, and the
administration had to be given the technical implement without which a unified
state simply cannot exist. Likewise a unified state-consciousness could
only be bred for any length of time by schools and education. This was not
feasible in ten or twenty years; it was inevitably a matter of centuries;
for in all questions of colonization, persistence assumes greater importance
than the energy of the moment.It goes without saying that the administration as well as the
political direction must be conducted with strict uniforrnity. To me it
was infinitely instructive to ascertain why this did not occur,. or rather,
why it was not done.l He who was guilty of this omission was alone to blame
for the collapse of the Empire.Old Austria more than any other state depended on the greatness
of her leaders. The foundation was lacking for a national state, which in
its national basis always possesses the power of survival, regardless how
deficient the leadership as such may be. A homogeneous national state can,
by virtue of the natural inertia of its inhabitants, and the resulting power
of resistance, sometimes withstand astonishingly long periods of the worst
administration or leadership without inwardly disintegrating. At such times
it often seems as though there were no more life in such a body, as though
it were dead and done for, but one fine day the supposed corpse suddenly
rises and gives the rest of humanity astonishing indications of its unquenchable
vital force.It is different, however, with an empire not consisting of similar
peoples, which is held together not by common blood but by a common fist.
In this case the weakness of leadership will not cause a hibernation of
the state, but an awakening of all the individual instincts which are present
in the blood, but carmot develop in times when there is a dominant will.
Only by a common education extending over centuries, by common tradition,
common interests, etc., can this danger be attenuated. Hence the younger
such state formations are, the more they depend on the greatness of leadership,
and if they are the work of outstanding soldiers and spiritual heroes, they
often crumble immediately after the death of the great solitary founder.
But even after centuries these dangers cannot be regarded as overcome; they
only lie dormant, often suddenly to awaken as soon as the weakness of the
common leadership and the force of education and all the sublime traditions
can no longer overcome the impetus of the vital urge of the individual tribes.Not to have understood this is perhaps the tragic guilt of the
House of Habsburg.For only a single one of them did Fate once again raise high
the torch over the future of his country, then it was extinguished for-ever.Joseph IIX Roman Emperor of the German nation, saw with fear
and trepidation how his House, forced to the outermost corner of the Empire,
would one day inevitably vanish in the maelstrom of a Babylon of nations
unless at the eleventh hour the omissions of his forefathers were made good.
With super-human power this 'friend of man' braced himself against the negligence
of his ancestors and endeavored to retrieve in one decade what centuries
had failed to do. If he had been granted only forty years for his work,
and if after him even two generations had continued his work as he began
it, the miracle would probably have been achieved. But when, after scarcely
ten years on the thrones worn in body and soul, he died, his work sank with
him into the grave, to awaken no more and sleep forever in the Capuchin
crypt. His successors were equal to the task neither in mind nor in will.When the first revolutionary lightnings of a new era flashed
through Europe, Austria, too, slowly began to catch fire, little by little.
But when the fire at length broke out, the flame was fanned less by social
or general political causes than by dynamic forces of national origin.The revolution of 1848 may have been a class struggle everywhere,
but in Austria it was the beginning of a new racial war. By forgetting or
not recognizing this origin and putting themselves in the service of the
revolutionary uprising, the Germans sealed their own fate. They helped to
arouse the spirit of 'Western democracy,' which in a short time removed
the foundations of their own existence.With the formation of a parliamentary representative body without
the previous establishment and crystallization of a common state language,
the cornerstone had been laid for the end of German domination of the monarchy.'
From this moment on the state itself was lost. All that followed was merely
the historic liquidation of an empire.To follow this process of dissolution was as heartrending as
it was instructive. This execution of an historical sentence was carried
out in detail in thousands and thousands of forrns. The fact that a large
part of the people moved blindly through the manifestations of decay showed
only that the gods had willed Austria's destruction.I shall not lose myself in details on this point, for that is
not the function of this book. I shall only submit to a more thoroughgoing
observation those events which are the everunchanging causes of the decline
of nations and states, thus possessing significance for our time as well,
and which ultimately contributed to securing the foundations of my own political
thinking.At the head of those institutions which could most clearly have
revealed the erosion of the Austrian monarchy, even to a shopkeeper not
otherwise gifted with sharp eyes, was one which ought to have had the greatest
strength parliament, or, as it was called in Austria, the Reichsrat.
Obviously the example of this body had been taken from England, the land
of classical 'democracy.' From there the whole blissful institution was
taken and transferred as unchanged as possible to Vienna.The English two-chamber system was solemnly resurrected in the
Abgeordnetenhaus and the Herrenhaus. Except that the houses' themselves
were somewhat different. When Barry raised his parliament buildings from
the waters of the Thames, he thrust into the history of the British Empire
and from it took the decorations for the twelve hundred niches, consoles,
and pillars of his magnificent edifice. Thus, in their sculpture and painting,
the House of Lords and the House of Commons became the nation's Hall of
Fame.This was where the first difficulty came in for Vienna. For
when Hansen, the Danish builder, had completed the last pinnacle on the
marble building of the new parliament, there was nothing he could use as
decoration except borrowings from antiquity. Roman and &reek statesmen
and philosophers now embellish this opera house of Western democracy, and
in symbolic irony the quadrigae fiy from one another in all four directions
above the two houses, in this way giving the best external expres sion of
the activities that went on inside the building.The 'nationalities' had vetoed the glorification of Austrian
history in this work as an insult and provocation, just as in the Reich
itself it was only beneath the thunder of World War battles that they dared
to dedicate Wallot's Reichstag Building to the German people by an inscription.When, not yet twenty years old, I set foot for the first time
in the magnificent building on the Franzensring to attend a session of the
House of Deputies as a spectator and listener, I was seized with the most
conflicting sentiments.I had always hated parliament, but not as an institution in
itself. On the contrary, as a freedom-loving man I could not even conceive
of any other possibility of government, for the idea of any sort of dictatorship
would, in view of my attitude toward the House of Habsburg, have seemed
to me a crime against freedom and all reason.What contributed no little to this was that as a young man,
in consequence of my extensive newspaper reading, I had, without myself
realizing it, been inoculated with a certain admiration for the British
Parliament, of which I was not easily able to rid myself. The dignity with
which the Lower House there fulfilled its tasks (as was so touchingly described
in our press) impressed me immensely. Could a people have any more exalted
form of selfgovernment?But for this very reason I was an enemy of the Austrian parliament.
I considered its whole mode of conduct unworthy of the great example. To
this the following was now added:The fate of the Germans in the Austrian state was dependent
on their position in the Reichsrat. Up to the introduction of universal
and secret suffrage, the Germans had had a majority, though an insignificant
one, in parliament. Even this condition was precarious, for the Social Democrats,
with their unreliable attitude in national questions, always turned against
German interests in critical matters affecting the Germans-in order not
to alienate the members of the various foreign nationalities. Even in those
days the Social Democracy could not be regarded as a German party. And with
the introduction of universal suffrage the German superiority ceased even
in a purely numerical sense. There was no longer any obstacle in the path
of the further de-Germanization of the state.For this reason my instinct of national self-preservation caused
me even in those days to have little love for a representative body in which
the Germans were always misrepresented rather than represented. Yet these
were deficiencies which, like so many others, were attributable, not to
the thing in itself, but to the Austrian state. I still believed that if
a German majority were restored in the representative bodies, there would
no longer be any reason for a principled opposition to them, that is, as
long as the old state continued to exist at all.These were my inner sentiments when for the first time I set
foot in these halls as hallowed as they were disputed. For me, to be sure,
they were hallowed only by the lofty beauty of the magnificent building.
A Hellenic miracle on German soil!How soon was I to grow indignant when I saw the lamentable comedy
that unfolded beneath my eyes!Present were a few hundred of these popular representatives
who had to take a position on a question of most vital economic importance.The very first day was enough to stimulate me to thought for
weeks on end.The intellectual content of what these men said was on a really
depressing level, in so far as you could understand their babbling at all;
for several of the gentlemen did not speak German, but their native Slavic
languages or rather dialects. I now had occasion to hear with my own ears
what previously I had known only from reading the newspapers. A wild gesticulating
mass screaming all at once in every different key, presided over by a goodnatured
old uncle who was striving in the sweat of his brow to revive the dignity
of the House by violently ringing his bell and alternating gentle reproofs
with grave admonitions.I couldn't help laughing.A few weeks later I was in the House again. The picture was
changed beyond recognition. The hall was absolutely empty. Down below everybody
was asleep. A few deputies were in their places, yawning at one another;
one was 'speaking.' A vicepresident of the House was present, looking into
the hall with obvious boredom.The first misgivings arose in me. From now on, whenever time
offered me the slightest opportunity, I went back and, with silence and
attention, viewed whatever picture presented itself, listened to the speeches
in so far as they were intelligible, studied the more or less intelligent
faces of the elect of the peoples of this woe-begone state-and little by
little formed my own ideas.A year of this tranquil observation sufficed totally to change
or eliminate my former view of the nature of this institution. My innermost
position was no longer against the misshapen form which this idea assumed
in Austria; no, by now I could no longer accept the parliament as such.
Up till then I had seen the misfortune of the Austrian parliament in the
absence of a German majority; now I saw that its ruination lay in the whole
nature and essence of the institution as such.A whole series of questions rose up in me.I began to make myself familiar with the democratic principle
of majority rule as the foundation of this whole institution, but devoted
no less attention to the intellectual and moral values of these gentlemen,
supposedly the elect of the nations, who were expected to serve this purpose.Thus I came to know the institution and its representatives
at once.In the course of a few years, my knowledge and insight shaped
a plastic model of that most dignified phenomenon of modern times: the parliamentarian.
He began to impress himself upon me in a form which has never since been
subjected to any essential change.Here again the visual instruction of practical reality had prevented
me from being stifled by a theory which at first sight seemed seductive
to so many, but which none the less must be counted among the symptoms of
human degeneration.The Western democracy of today is the forerunner of Marxism
which without it would not be thinkable. It provides this world plague with
the culture in which its germs can spread. In its most extreme forrn, parliamentarianism
created a 'monstrosity of excrement and fire,' in which, however, sad to
say, the 'fire' seems to me at the moment to be burned out.I must be more than thankful to Fate for laying this question
before me while I was in Vienna, for I fear that in Germany at that time
I would have found the answer too easily. For if I had first encountered
this absurd institution known as 'parliament' in Berlin, I might have fallen
into the opposite fallacy, and not without seemingly good cause have sided
with those who saw the salvation of the people and the Reich exclusively
in furthering the power of the imperial idea, and who nevertheless were
alien and blind at once to the times and the people involved.In Austria this was impossible.Here it was not so easy to go from one mistake to the other.
If parliament was worthless, the Habsburgs were even more worthless-in no
event, less so. To reject 'parliamentarianism' was not enough, for the question
still remained open: what then? The rejection and abolition of the Reichsrat
would have left the House of Habsburg the sole governing force, a thought
which, especially for me, was utterly intolerable.The difficulty of this special case led me to a more thorough
contemplation of the problem as such than would otherwise have been likely
at such tender years.What gave me most food for thought was the obvious absence of
any responsibility in a single person.The parliament arrives at some decision whose consequences may
be ever so ruinous-nobody bears any responsibility for this, no one can
be taken to account. For can it be called an acceptance of responsibility
if, after an unparalleled catastrophe, the guilty government resigns? Or
if the coalition changes, or even if parliament is itself dissolved?Can a fluctuating majority of people ever be made responsible
in any case?Isn't the very idea of responsibility bound up with the individual?
But can an individual directing a government be made practically responsible
for actions whose preparation and execution must be set exclusively to the
account of the will and inclination of a multitude of men?Or will not the task of a leading statesman be seen, not in
the birth of a creative idea or plan as such, but rather in the art of making
the brilliance of his projects intelligible to a herd of sheep and blockheads,
and subsequently begging for their kind approval?Is it the criterion of the statesman that he should possess
the art of persuasion in as high degree as that of political intelligence
in formulating great policies or decisions? Is the incapacity of a leader
shown by the fact that he does not succeed in winning for a certain idea
the majority of a mob thrown together by more or less savory accidents?Indeed, has this mob ever understood an idea before success
proclaimed its greatness?Isn't every deed of genius in this world a visible protest of
genius against the inertia of the mass?
And what should the statesman do, who does not succeed in gaining the favor
of this mob for his plans by flattery?Should he buy it?Or, in view of the stupidity of his fellow citizens, should
he renounce the execution of the tasks which he has recognized to be vital
necessities? Should he resign or should he remain at his post?
In such a case, doesn't a man of true character find himself in a hopeless
conflict between knowledge and decency, or rather honest conviction?Where is the dividing line between his duty toward the general
public and his duty toward his personal honor?Mustn't every true leader refuse to be thus degraded to the
level of a political gangster?And, conversely, mustn't every gangster feel that he is cut
out for politics, since it is never he, but some intangible mob, which has
to bear the ultimate responsibility?Mustn't our principle of parliamentary majorities lead to the
demolition of any idea of leadership?
Does anyone believe that the progress of this world springs from the mind
of majoritiesand not from the brains of individuals?Or does anyone expect that the future will be able to dispense
with this premise of human culture?Does it not, on the contrary, today seem more indispensable
than ever?By rejecting the authority of the individual and replacing it
by the numbers of some momentary mob, the parliamentary principle of majority
rule sins against the basic aristocratic principle of Nature, though it
must be said that this view is not necessarily embodied in the present-day
decadence of our upper ten thousand.The devastation caused by this institution of modern parliamentary
rule is hard for the reader of Jewish newspapers to imagine, unless he has
learned to think and examine independently. It is, first and foremost, the
cause of the incredible inundation of all political life with the most inferior,
and I mean the most inferior, characters of our time. Just as the true leader
will withdraw from all political activity which does not consist primarily
in creative achievement and work, but in bargaining and haggling for the
favor of the majority, in the same measure this activity will suit the small
mind and consequently attract it.The more dwarfish one of these present-day leathermerchants
is in spirit and ability, the more clearly his own insight makes him aware
of the lamentable figure he actually cuts-that much more will he sing the
praises of a system which does not demand of him the power and genius of
a giant, but is satisfied with the craftiness of a village mayor, preferring
in fact this kind of wisdom to that of a Pericles. And this kind doesn't
have to torment himself with responsibility for his actions. He is entirely
removed from such worry, for he well knows that, regardless what the result
of his 'statesmanlike' bungling may be, his end has long been written in
the stars: one day he will have to cede his place to another equally great
mind, for it is one of the characteristics of this decadent system that
the number of great statesmen increases in proportion as the stature of
the individual decreases With increasing dependence on parliamentary majorities
it will inevitably continue to shrink, since on the one hand great minds
will refuse to be the stooges of idiotic incompetents and bigmouths, and
on the other, conversely, the representatives of the majority, hence of
stupidity, hate nothing more passionately than a superior mind.For such an assembly of wise men of Gotham, it is always a consolation
to know that they are headed by a leader whose intelligence is at the level
of those present: this will give each one the pleasure of shining from time
to time-and, above all, if Tom can be master, what is to prevent Dick and
Harry from having their turn too?This invention of democracy is most intimately related to a
quality which in recent times has grown to be a real disgrace, to wit, the
cowardice of a great part of our so-called 'leadership. What luck to be
able to hide behind the skirts of a so-called majority in all decisions
of any real importance!Take a look at one of these political bandits. How anxiously
he begs the approval of the majority for every measure, to assure himself
of the necessary accomplices, so he can unload the responsibility at any
time. And this is one of the main reasons why this type of political activity
is always repulsive and hateful to any man who is decent at heart and hence
courageous, while it attracts all low characters-and anyone who is unwilling
to take personal responsibility for his acts, but seeks a shield, is a cowardly
scoundrel. When the leaders of a nation consist of such vile creatures,
the results will soon be deplorable. Such a nation will be unable to muster
the courage for any determined act; it will prefer to accept any dishonor,
even the most shameful, rather than rise to a decision; for there is no
one who is prepared of his own accord to pledge his person and his head
for the execution of a dauntless resolve.For there is one thing which we must never forget: in this,
too, the majority can never replace the man. It is not only a representative
of stupidity, but of cowardice as well. And no more than a hundred empty
heads make one wise man will an heroic decision arise from a hundred cowards.The less the responsibility of the individual leader, the more
numerous will be those who, despite their most insignificant stature, feel
called upon to put their immortal forces in the service of the nation. Indeed,
they will be unable to await their turn; they stand in a long line, and
with pain and regret count the number of those waiting ahead of them, calculating
almost the precise hour at which, in all probability, their turn will come.
Consequently, they long for any change in the office hovering before their
eyes, and are thankful for any scandal which thins out the ranks ahead of
them. And if some man is unwilling to move from the post he holds, this
in their eyes is practically a breach of a holy pact of solidarity. They
grow vindictive, and they do not rest until the impudent fellow is at last
overthrown, thus turning his warm place back to the public. And, rest assured,
he won't recover the position so easily. For as soon as one of these creatures
is forced to give up a position, he will try at once to wedge his way into
the 'waiting-line' unless the hue and cry raised by the others prevents
him.The consequence of all this is a terrifying turn-over in the
most important offices and positions of such a state, a result which is
always harmful, but sometimes positively catastrophic. For it is not only
the simpleton and incompetent who will fall victim to thus custom, but to
an even greater extent the real leader, if Fate somehow manages to put one
in this place. As soon as this fact has been recognized, a solid front will
form against him, especially if such a mind has not arisen from their own
ranks, but none the less dares to enter into this exalted society. For on
principle these gentry like to be among themselves and they hate as a common
enemy any brain which stands even slightly above the zeros. And in this
respect their instinct is as much sharper as it is deficient in everything
else. The result will be a steadily expanding intellectual impoverishment
of the leading circles. The result for the nation and the state, everyone
can judge for himself, excepting in so far as he himself is one of these
kind of 'leaders.' Old Austria possessed the parliamentary regime in its purest
form.To be sure, the prime ministers were always appointed by the
Emperor and King, but this very appointment was nothing halt the execution
of the parliamentary will. The haggling and bargaining for the individual
portfolios represented Western democracy of the first water. And the results
corresponded to the principles applied. Particularly the change of individual
personalities occurred in shorter and shorter terms, ultimately becoming
a veritable chase. In the same measure, the stature of the ' statesmen '
steadily diminished until finally no one remained but that type of parliamentary
gangster whose statesmanship could only be measured and recognized by their
ability in pasting together the coalitions of the moment; in other words,
concluding those pettiest of political bargains which alone demonstrate
the fitness of these representatives of the people for practical work.
Thus the Viennese school transmitted the best impressions in this field.But what attracted me no less was to compare the ability and
knowledge of these representatives of the people and the tasks which awaited
them. In this case, whether I liked it or not, I was impelled to examine
more closely the intellectual horizon of these elect of the nations themselves,
and in so doing, I could not avoid giving the necessary attention to the
processes which lead to the discovery of these ornaments of our public life.The way in which the real ability of these gentlemen was applied
and placed in the service of the fatherland-in other words, the technical
process of their activity-was also worthy of thorough study and investigation.The more determined I was to penetrate these inner conditions,
to study the personalities and material foundations with dauntless and penetrating
objectivity, the more deplorable became my total picture of parliamentary
life. Indeed, this is an advisable procedure in dealing with an institution
which, in the person of its representatives, feels obliged to bring up '
objectivity ' in every second sentence as the only proper basis for every
investigation and opinion. Investigate these gentlemen themselves and the
laws of their sordid existence, and you will be amazed at the result.There is no principle which, objectively considered, is as false
a,s that of parliamentarianism.Here we may totally disregard the manner in which our fine representatives
of the people are chosen, how they arrive at their office and their new
dignity. That only the tiniest fraction of them rise in fulfillment of a
general desire, let alone a need, will at once be apparent to anyone who
realizes that the political understanding of the broad masses is far from
being highly enough developed to arrive at definite general political views
of their own accord and seek out the suitable personalities.The thing we designate by the word 'public opinion' rests only
in the smallest part on experience or knowledge which the individual has
acquired by hirnself, but rather on an idea which is inspired by so-called
'enlightenment,' often of a highly persistent and obtrusive type.Just as a man's denominational orientation is the result of
upbringing, and only the religious need as such slumbers in his soul, the
political opinion of the masses represents nothing but the final result
of an incredibly tenacious and thorough manipulation of their mind and soul.
By far the greatest share in their political 'education,' which in this
case is most aptly designated by the word 'propaganda,' falls to the account
of the press. It is foremost in performing this 'work of enlightenment'
and thus represents a sort of school for grown-ups. This instruction, however,
is not in the hands of the state, but in the claws of forces which are in
part very inferior. In Vienna as a very young man I had the best opportunity
to become acquainted with the owners and spiritual manufacturers of this
machine for educating the masses. At first I could not help but be amazed
at how short a time it took this great evil power within the state to create
a certain opinion even where it meant totally falsifying profound desires
and views which surely existed among the public. In a few days a ridiculous
episode had become a significant state action, while, conversely, at the
same time, vital problems fell a prey to public oblivion, or rather were
simply filched from the memory and consciousness of the masses.Thus, in the course of a few weeks it was possible to conjure
up names out of the void, to associate them with incredible hopes on the
part of the broad public, even to give them a popularity which the really
great man often does not obtain his whole life long; names which a month
before no one had even seen or heard of, while at the same time old and
proved figures of political or other public life, though in the best of
health, simply died as far as their fellow men were concemed, or were heaped
with such vile insults that their names soon threatened to become the symbol
of some definite act of infamy or villainy. We must study this vile Jewish
technique of emptying garbage pails full of the vilest slanders and defamations
from hundreds and hundreds of sources at once, suddenly and as if by magic,
on the clean garments of honorable men, if we are fully to appreciate the
entire menace represented by these scoundrels of the press.There is absolutely nothing one of these spiritual robberbarons
will not do to achieve his savory aims.He will poke into the most secret family affairs and not rest
until his trufRe-searching instinct digs up some miserable incident which
is calculated to finish off the unfortunate victim. But if, after the most
careful sniffing, absolutely nothing is found, either in the man's public
or private life, one of these scoundrels simply seizes on slander, in the
firm conviction that despite a thousand refutations something always sticks
and, moreover, through the immediate and hundredfold repetition of his defamations
by all his accomplices, any resistance on the part of the victim is in most
cases utterly impossible; and it must be borne in mind that this rabble
never acts out of motives which might seem credible or even understandable
to the rest of humanity. God forbid! While one of these scum is attacking
his beloved fellow men in the most contemptible fashion, the octopus covers
himself with a veritable cloud of respectability and unctuous phrases, prates
about ' journalistic duty ' and suchlike lies, and even goes so far as to
shoot off his mouth at committee meetings and congresses- that is, occasions
where these pests are present in large numbers -about a very special variety
of 'honor,' to wit, the journalistic variety, which the assembled rabble
gravely and mutually confirm.These scum manufacture more than three quarters of the so-called
'public opinion,' from whose foam the parliamentarian Aphrodite arises.
To give an accurate description of this process and depict it in all its
falsehood and improbability, one would have to write volumes. But even if
we disregard all this and examine only the given product along with its
activity, this seems to me enough to make the objective lunacy of this institution
dawn on even the naivest mind.This human error, as senseless as it is dangerous, will most
readily be understood as soon as we compare democratic parliamentarianism
with a truly Germanic democracy.The distinguishing feature of the former is that a body of,
let us say five hundred men, or in recent times even women, is chosen and
entrusted with making the ultimate decision in any and all matters. And
so for practical purposes they alone are the government; for even if they
do choose a cabinet which undertakes the external direction of the affairs
of state, this is a mere sham. In reality this so-called government cannot
take a step without first obtaining the approval of the general assembly.
Consequently, it cannot be made responsible for anything, since the ultimate
decision never lies with it, but with the majority of parliament. In every
case it does nothing but carry out the momentary will of the majority. Its
political ability can only be judged according to the skill with which it
understands how either to adapt itself to the will of the majority or to
pull the majority over to its side. Thereby it sinks from the heights of
real government to the level of a beggar confronting the momentary majority.
Indeed, its most urgent task becomes nothing more than either to secure
the favor of the existing majority, as the need arises, or to form a majority
with more friendly inclinations. If this succeeds, it may 'govern' a little
while longer; if it doesn't succeed, it can resign. The soundness of its
purposes as such is beside the point.For practical purposes, this excludes all responsibilityTo what consequences this leads can be seen from a few simple
considerations:The internal composition of the five hundred chosen representatives
of the people, with regard to profession or even individual abilities, gives
a picture as incoherent as it is usually deplorable. For no one can believe
that these men elected by the nation are elect of spirit or even of intelligence
! It is to be hoped that no one will suppose that the ballots of an electorate
which is anything else than brilliant will give rise to statesmen by the
hundreds. Altogether we cannot be too sharp in condemning the absurd notion
that geniuses can be born from general elections. In the first place, a
nation only produces a real statesman once in a blue moon and not a hundred
or more at once; and in the second place, the revulsion of the masses for
every outstanding genius is positively instinctive. Sooner will a camel
pass through a needle's eye than a great man be ' discovered' by an election.
In world history the man who really rises above the norm of the broad average
usually announces himself personally.As it is, however, five hundred men, whose stature is to say
the least modest, vote on the most important affairs of the nation, appoint
governments which in every single case and in every special question have
to get the approval of the exalted assembly, so that policy is really made
by five hundred.And that is just what it usually looks like.But even leaving the genius of these representatives of the
people aside, bear in mind how varied are the problems awaiting attention,
in what widely removed fields solutions and decisions must be made, and
you will realize how inadequate a governing institution must be which transfers
the ultimate right of decision to a mass assembly of people, only a tiny
fraction of which possess knowledge and experience of the matter to be treated.
The most important economic measures are thus submitted to a forum, only
a tenth of whose members have any economic education to show. This is nothing
more nor less than placing the ultimate decision in a matter in the hands
of men totally lacking in every prerequisite for the task.The same is true of every other question. The decision is always
made by a majority of ignoramuses and incompetents, since the composition
of this institution remains unchanged while the problems under treatment
extend to nearly every province of public life and would thereby presuppose
a constant turn-over in the deputies who are to judge and decide on them,
since it is impossible to let the same persons decide matters of transportation
as, let us say, a question of high for eign policy. Otherwise these men
would all have to be universal geniuses such as we actually seldom encounter
once in centuries. Unfortunately we are here confronted, for the most part,
not with 'thinkers,' but with dilettantes as limited as they are conceited
and infiated, intellectual demimonde of the worst sort. And this is the
source of the often incomprehensible frivolity with which these gentry speak
and decide on things which would require careful meditation even in the
greatest minds. Measures of the gravest significance for the future of a
whole state, yes, of a nation, are passed as though a game of schafDopf
or tarock,l which would certainly be better suited to their abilities, lay
on the table before them and not the fate of a race.Yet it would surely be unjust to believe that all of the deputies
in such a parliament were personally endowed with so little sense of responsibility.No, by no means.But by forcing the individual to take a position on such questions
completely ill-suited to him, this system gradually ruins hus character.
No one will summon up the courage to declare: Gentlemen, I believe we understand
nothing about this matter I personally certainly do not.' (Besides, this
would change mat ters little, for surely this kind of honesty would remain
totally unappreciated, and what is more, our friends would scarcely allow
one honorable jackass to spoil their whole game.) Anyone with a knowledge
of people will realize that in such an illustrious company no one is eager
to be the stupidest, and in certain circles honesty is almost synonymous
with stupidityThus, even the representative who at first was honest is thrown
end page 89
Page 90
into this track of general falsehood and deceit. The very conviction that
the non-participation of an individual in the business would in itself change
nothing kills every honorable impulse which may rise up in this or that
deputy. And finally, moreover, he may tell himself that he personally is
far from being the worst among the others, and that the sole effect of his
collaboration is perhaps to prevent worse things from happening. It will be objected, to be sure, that. though the individual
deputy possesses no special understanding in this or that matter, his position
has been discussed by the fraction which directs the policy of the gentleman
in question, and that the fraction has its special committees which are
more than adequately enlightened by experts anyway. At first glance this seems to be true. But then the question
arises: Why are five hundred chosen when only a few possess the necessary
wisdom to take a position in the most important matters?And this is the worm in the apple!It is not the aim of our present-day parliamentarianism to constitute
an assembly of wise men, but rather to compose a band of mentally dependent
nonentities who are the more easily led in certain directions, the greater
is the personal limitation of the individual. That is the only way of carrying
on party politics in the malodorous present-day sense. And only in this
way is it possible for the real wirepuller to remain carefully in the background
and never personally be called to responsibility. For then every decision,
regardless how harmful to the nation, will not be set to the account of
a scoundrel visible to all, but will be unloaded on the shoulders of a whole
fraction.And thereby every practical responsibility vanishes. For responsibility
can lie only in the obligation of an individual and not in a parliamentary
bull session.Such an institution can only please the biggest liars and sneaks
of the sort that shun the light of day, because it is inevitably hateful
to an honorable, straightforward man who welcomes personal responsibility.And that is why this type of democracy has become the instrument
of that race which in its inner goals must shun the light of day, now and
in all ages of the future. Only the Jew can praise an institution which
is as dirty and false as he himself.Juxtaposed to this is the truly Germanic democracy characterized
by the free election of a leader and his obligation fully to assume all
responsibility for his actions and omissions. In it there is no majority
vote on individual questions, but only the decision of an individual who
must answer with his fortune and his life for his choice.If it be objected that under such conditions scarcely anyone
would be prepared to dedicate his person to so risky a task, there is but
one possible answer:Thank the Lord, Germanic democracy means just this: that any
old climber or moral slacker cannot rise by devious paths to govern his
national comrades, but that, by the very greatness of the responsibility
to be assumed, incompetents and weaklings are frightened off. But if, nevertheless, one of these scoundrels should attempt
to sneak in, we can find him more easily, and mercilessly challenge him:
Out, cowardly scoundrel! Remove your foot, you are besmirching the steps;
the front steps of the Pantheon of history are not for sneak-thieves, but
for heroes!I had fought my way to this conclusion after two years attendance
at the Vienna parliament.After that I never went back.The parliamentary regime shared the chief blame for the weakness,
constantly increasing in the past few years, of the Habsburg state. The
more its activities broke the predominance of the Germans, the more the
country succumbed to a system of playing off the nationalities against one
another. In the Reichsrat itself this was always done at the expense of
the Germans and thereby, in the last analysis, at the expense of the Empire;
for by the turn of the century it must have been apparent even to the simplest
that the monarchy's force of attraction would no longer be able to withstand
the separatist tendencies of the provinces. On the contrary.The more pathetic became the means which the state had to employ
for its preservation, the more the general contempt for it increased. Not
only in Hungary, but also in the separate Slavic provinces, people began
to identify themselves so little with the common monarchy that they did
not regard its weakness as their own disgrace. On the contrary, they rejoiced
at such symptoms of old age; for they hoped more for the Empire's death
than for its recovery.In parliament, for the moment, total collapse was averted by
undignified submissiveness and acquiescence at every extortion, for which
the German had to pay in the end; and in the country, by most skillfully
playing off the different peoples against each other. But the general line
of development was nevertheless directed against the Germans. Especially
since Archduke Francis Ferdinand became heir apparent and began to enjoy
a certain influence, there began to be some plan and order in the policy
of Czechization from above. With all possible means, this future ruler of
the dual monarchy tried to encourage a policy of deGermanization, to advance
it himself or at least to sanction it. Purely German towns, indirectly through
government official dom, were slowly but steadily pushed into the mixed-language
danger zones. Even in Lower Austria this process began to make increasingly
rapid progress, and many Czechs considered Vienna their largest city.The central idea of this new Habsburg, whose family had ceased
to speak anything but Czech (the Archduke's wife, a former Czech countess,
had been morganatically married to the Prince-she came from circles whose
anti-German attitude was traditional), was gradually to establish a Slavic
state in Central Europe which for defense against Orthodox Russia should
be placed on a strictly Catholic basis. Thus, as the Habsburgs had so often
done before, religion was once again put into the service of a purely political
idea, and what was worse-at least from the German viewpoint-of a catastrophic
idea.The result was more than dismal in many respects. Neither the
House of Habsburg nor the Catholic Church received the expected reward.Habsburg lost the throne, Rome a great state.For by employing religious forces in the service of its political
considerations, the crown aroused a spirit which at the outset it had not
considered possible.In answer to the attempt to exterminate the Germans in the old
monarchy by every possible means, there arose the PanGerman movement in
Austria. By the eighties the basic Jewish tendency of Manchester liberalism
had reached, if not passed, its high point in the monarchy. The reaction
to it, however, as with everything in old Austria, arose primarily from
a social, not from a national standpoint. The instinct of self-preservation
forced the Germans to adopt the sharpest measures of defense. Only secondarily
did economic considerations begin to assume a decisive influence. And so,
two party formations grew out of the general political confusion, the one
with the more national, the other with the more social, attitude, but both
highly interesting and instructive for the future. After the depressing end of the War of 1866, the House of Habsburg
harbored the idea of revenge on the battlefield. Only the death of Emperor
Max of Mexico, whose unfortunate expedition was blamed primarily on Napoleon
III and whose abandonment by the French aroused general indignation, prevented
a closer collaboration with France. Habsburg nevertheless lurked in wait.
If the War of 1870-71 had not been so unique a triumph, the Vienna Court
would probably have risked a bloody venture to avenge Sadowa. But when the
first amazing and scarcely credible, but none the less true, tales of heroism
arrived from the battlefields, the 'wisest' of all monarchs recognized that
the hour was not propitious and put the best possible face on a bad business.But the heroic struggle of these years had accomplished an even
mightier miracle; for with the Habsburgs a change of position never arose
from the urge of the innermost heart, but from the compulsion of circumstances.
However, the German people of the old Ostmark were swept along by the Reich's
frenzy of victory, and looked on with deep emotion as the dream of their
fathers was resurrected to glorious reality.For make no mistake: the truly German-minded Austrian had, even
at Koniggratz, and from this time on, recognized the tragic but necessary
prerequisite for the resurrection of a Reich which would no longer be-and
actually was not-afflicted with the foul morass of the old Union. Above
all, he had come to understand thoroughly, by his own suffering, that the
House of Habsburg had at last concluded its historical mission and that
the new Reich could choose as Emperor only him whose heroic convictions
made him worthy to bear the 'Crown of the Rhine.' But how much more was
Fate to be praised for accomplishing this investiture in the scion of a
house which in Frederick the Great had given the nation a gleaming and eternal
symbol of its resurrection.But when after the great war the House of Habsburg began with
desperate determination slowly but inexorably to exterminate the dangerous
German element in the dual monarchy (the inner convictions of this element
could not be held in doubt), for such would be the inevitable result of
the Slavization policy- the doomed people rose to a resistance such as modern
German history had never seen.For the first time, men of national and patriotic mind became
rebels.Rebels, not against the nation and not against the state as
such, but rebels against a kind of government which in their conviction
would inevitably lead to the destruction of their own nationality.For the first time in modern German history, traditional dynastic
patriotism parted ways with the national love of fatherland and people.The Pan-German movement in German-Austria in the nineties is
to be praised for demonstrating in clear, unmistakable terms that a state
authority is entitled to demand respect and protection only when it meets
the interests of a people, or at least does not harm them.There can be no such thing as state authority as an end in itself,
for, if there were, every tyranny in this world would be unassailable and
sacred.If, by the instrument of governmental power, a nationality is
led toward its destruction, then rebellion is not only the right of every
member of such a people-it is his duty.And the question-when is this the case?-is decided not by theoretical
dissertations, but by force and-results.Since, as a matter of course, all governmental power claims
the duty of preserving state authority-regardless how vicious it is, betraying
the interests of a people a thousandfold-the national instinct of self-preservation,
in overthrowing such a power and achieving freedom or independence, will
have to employ the same weapons by means of which the enemy tries to maintain
his power. Consequently, the struggle will be carried on with 'legal' means
as long as the power to be overthrown employs such means; but it will not
shun illegal means if the oppressor uses them.In general it should not be forgotten that the highest aim of
human existence is not the preservation of a state, let alone a government,
but the preservation of the species.And if the species itself is in danger of being oppressed or
utterly eliminated, the question of legality is reduced to a subordinate
role. Then, even if the methods of the ruling power are alleged to be legal
a thousand times over, nonetheless the oppressed people's instinct of self-preservation
remains the loftiest justification of their struggle with every weapon.Only through recognition of this principle have wars of liberation
against internal and external enslavement of nations on this earth come
down to us in such majestic historical examples.Human law cancels out state law.And if a people is defeated in its struggle for human rights,
this merely means that it has been found too light in the scale of destiny
for the happiness of survival on this earth. For when a people is not willing
or able to fight for its existence- Providence in its eternal justice has
decreed that people's end.The world is not for cowardly peoples.How easy it is for a tyranny to cover itself with the cloak
of so-called 'legality' is shown most clearly and penetratingly by the example
of Austria.The legal state power in those days was rooted in the antiGerman
soil of parliament with its non-German majorities- and in the equally anti-German
ruling house. In these two factors the entire state authority was embodied.
Any attempt to change the destinies of the German-Austrian people from this
position was absurd. Hence, in the opinions of our friends the worshipers
of state authority as such and of the 'legal' way, all resistance would
have had to be shunned, as incompatible with legal methods. But this, with
compelling necessity, would have meant the end of the German people in the
monarchy-and in a very short time. And, as a matter of fact, the Germans
were saved from this fate only by the collapse of this state.The bespectacled theoretician, it is true, would still prefer
to die for his doctrine than for his people.Since it is men who make the laws, he believes that they live
for the sake of these laws.The Pan-German movement in Austria had the merit of completely
doing away with this nonsense, to the horror of all theoretical pedants
and other fetish-worshiping isolationists in the government.Since the Habsburgs attempted to attack Germanism with all possible
means, this party attacked the 'exalted' ruling house itself, and without
mercy. For the first time it probed into this rotten state and opened the
eyes of hundreds of thousands. To its credit be it said that it released
the glorious concept of love of fatherland from the embrace of this sorry
dynasty.In the early days of its appearance, its following was extremely
great, threatening to become a veritable avalanche. But the success did
not last. When I came to Vienna, the movement had long been overshadowed
by the Christian Social Party which had meanwhile attained power-and had
indeed been reduced to almost complete insignificance.This whole process of the growth and passing of the Pan-German
movement on the one hand, and the unprecedented rise of the Christian Social
Party on the other, was to assume the deepest significance for me as a classical
object of study.When I came to Vienna, my sympathies were fully and wholly on
the side of the Pan-German tendency.That they mustered the courage to cry 'Loch Hohenzollern' impressed
me as much as it pleased me; that they still regarded themselves as an only
temporarily severed part of the German Reich, and never let a moment pass
without openly attesting this fact, inspired me with joyful confidence;
that in all questions regarding Germanism they showed their colors without
reserve, and never descended to compromises, seemed to me the one still
passable road to the salvation of our people; and I could not understand
how after its so magnificent rise the movement should have taken such a
sharp decline. Even less could I understand how the Christian Social Party
at this same period could achieve such immense power. At that time it had
just reached the apogee of its glory.As I set about comparing these movements, Fate, accelerated
by my otherwise sad situation, gave me the best instruction for an understanding
of the causes of this riddle.I shall begin my comparisons with the two men who may be regarded
as the leaders and founders of the two parties: Georg von Schonerer and
Dr. Karl Lueger.From a purely human standpoint they both tower far above the
scope and stature of so-called parliamentary figures. Amid the morass of
general political corruption their whole life remained pure and unassailable.
Nevertheless my personal sympathy lay at first on the side of the Pan-German
Schonerer, and turned only little by little toward the Christian Social
leader as well.Compared as to abilities, Schonerer seemed to me even then the
better and more profound thinker in questions of principle. He foresaw the
inevitable end of the Austrian state more clearly and correctly than anyone
else. If, especially in the Reich, people had paid more attention to his
warnings
against the Habsburg monarchy, the calamity of Germany's World War against
all Europe would never have occurred.But if Schonerer recognized the problems in their innermost
essence, he erred when it came to men.Here, on the other hand, lay Dr. Lueger's strength.He had a rare knowledge of men and in particular took good care
not to consider people better than they are. Consequently, he reckoned more
with the real possibilities of life while Schonerer had but little understanding
for them. Theoretically speaking, all the Pan-German's thoughts were correct,
but since he lacked the force and astuteness to transmit his theoretical
knowledge to the masses-that is, to put it in a form suited to the receptivity
of the broad masses, which is and remains exceedingly limited-all his knowledge
was visionary wisdom, and could never become practical reality.And this lack of actual knowledge of men led in the course of
time to an error in estimating the strength of whole movements as well as
age-old institutions.Finally, Schonerer realized, to be sure, that questions of basic
philosophy were involved, but he did not understand that only the broad
masses of a people are primarily able to uphold such well-nigh religious
convictions.Unfortunately, he saw only to a limited extent the extra-ordinary
limitation of the will to fight in so-called 'bourgeois' circles, due, if
nothing else, to their economic position which makes the individual fear
to lose too much and thereby holds him in check.And yet, on the whole, a philosophy can hope for victory only
if the broad masses adhere to the new doctrine and declare their readiness
to undertake the necessary struggle.From this deficient understanding of the importance of the lower
strata of the people arose a completely inadequate con-ception of the social
question.In all this Dr. Lueger was the opposite of Schonerer.His thorough knowledge of men enabled him to judge the possible
forces correctly, at the same time preserving him from underestimating existing
institutions, and perhaps for this very reason taught him to make use of
these institutions as instruments for the achievement of his purposes.
He understood only too well that the political fighting power of the upper
bourgeoisie at the present time was but slight and inadequate for achieving
the victory of a great movement. He therefore laid the greatest stress in
his political activity on winning over the classes whose existence was threatened
and therefore tended to spur rather than paralyze the will to fight. Likewise
he was inclined to make use of all existing implements of power, to incline
mighty existing institutions in his favor, drawing from these old sources
of power the greatest possible profit for his own movement.Thus he adjusted his new party primarily to the middle class
menaced with destruction, and thereby assured himself of a following that
was difficult to shake, whose spirit of sacrifice was as great as its fighting
power. His policy toward the Catholic Church, fashioned with infinite shrewdness,
in a short time won over the younger clergy to such an extent that the old
Clerical Party was forced either to abandon the field, or, more wisely,
to join the new party, in order slowly to recover position after position.To take this alone as the characteristic essence of the man
would be to do him a grave injustice. For in addition to being an astute
tactician, he had the qualities of a truly great and brilliant reformer:
though here, too, he observed the limits set by a precise knowledge of the
existing possibilities as well as his own personal abilities.It was an infinitely practical goal that this truly significant
man had set himself. He wanted to conquer Vienna. Vienna was the heart of
the monarchy; from this city the last flush of life flowed out into the
sickly, old body of the crumbling empire. The healthier the heart became,
the more the rest of the body was bound to revive: an idea, correct in principle,
but which could be applied only for a certain limited time.And herein lay this man's weakness.What he had done as mayor of Vienna is immortal in the best
sense of the word; but he could no longer save the monarchy, it was too
late.His opponent, Schonerer, had seen this more clearlyAll Dr. Lueger's practical efforts were amazingly successfulthe
hopes he based on them were not realized.Schonerer's efforts were not successful, but his most terrible
fears came true.Thus neither man realized his ultimate goal. Lueger could no
longer save Austria, and Schonerer could no longer save the German people
from ruin.It is infinitely instructive for our present day to study the
causes for the failure of both parties. This is particularly useful for
my friends, since in many points conditions today are similar to then and
errors can thereby be avoided which at that time caused the end of the one
movement and the sterility of the other.To my mind, there were three causes for the collapse of the
Pan-German movement in Austria.In the first place, its unclear conception of the significance
of the social problem, especially for a new and essentially revolutionary
party. Since Schonerer and his followers addressed themselves principally
to bourgeois circles, the result was bound to be very feeble and tame.Though some people fail to suspect it, the German bourgeoisie,
especially in its upper circles, is pacifistic to the point of positive
self-abnegation, where internal affairs of the nation or state are concerned.
In good times that is, in this case, in times of good government such an
attitude makes these classes extremely valuable to the state; but in times
of an inferior regime it is positively ruinous. To make possible the waging
of any really serious struggle, the Pan-German movement should above all
have dedicated itself to winning the masses. That it failed to do so deprived
it in advance of the elemental impetus which a wave of its kind simply must
have if it is not in a short time to ebb away. Unless this principle is borne in mind and carried out from
the very start, the new party loses all possibility of later making up for
what has been lost. For, by the admission of numerous moderate bourgeois
elements, the basic attitude of the movement will always be governed by
them and thus lose any further prospect of winning appreciable forces from
the broad masses. As a result, such a movement will not rise above mere
grumbling and criticizing. The faith bordering more or less on religion,
combined with a similar spirit of sacrifice, will cease to exist; in its
place will arise an effort gradually to grind off the edges of struggle
by means of 'positive' collaboration; that is, in this case, by acceptance
of the existing order, thus ultimately leading to a putrid peace.And this is what happened to the Pan-German movement because
it had not from the outset laid its chief stress on winning supporters from
the circles of the great masses. It achieved 'bourgeois respectability and
a muffled radicalism.'From this error arose the second cause of its rapid decline.At the time of the emergence of the Pan-German movement the
situation of the Germans in Austria was already desperate. From year to
year the parliament had increasingly become an institution for the slow
destruction of the German people. Any attempt at salvation in the eleventh
hour could offer even the slightest hope of success only if this institution
were eliminated.Thus the movement was faced with a question of basic importance:Should its members, to destroy parliament, go into parliament,
in order, as people used to say, 'to bore from within,' or should they carry
on the struggle from outside by an attack on this institution as such?They went in and they came out defeated.To be sure, they couldn't help but go in.To carry on the struggle against such a power from outside means
to arm with unflinching courage and to be prepared for endless sacrifices.
You seize the bull by the horns, you suffer many heavy blows, you are sometimes
thrown to the earth, sometimes you get up with broken limbs, and only after
the hardest contest does victory reward the bold assailant. Only the greatness
of the sacrifices will win new fighters for the cause, until at last tenacity
is rewarded by success.But for this the sons of the broad masses are required.They alone are determined and tough enough to carry through
the fight to its bloody end.And the Pan-German movement did not possess these broad masses;
thus no course remained open but to go into parliamentIt would be a mistake to believe that this decision was the
result of long soul torments, or even meditations; no, no other idea entered
their heads. Participation in this absurdity was only the
sediment resulting from general, unclear conceptions regarding the significance
and effect of such a participation in an institution which had in principle
been recognized as false. In general, the
party hoped that this would facilitate the enlightenment of the broad masses,
since it would now have an opportunity to speak before the 'forum of the
whole nation.' Besides, it seemed plausible that attacking the root of the
evil was bound to be more successful than storming it from outside. They
thought the security of the individual fighter was increased by the protection
of parliamentary immunity, and that this could only enhance the force of
the attack. In reality, it must be said, things turned out very differently.The forum before which the Pan-German deputies spoke had not
become greater but smaller; for each man speaks only to the circle which
can hear him, or which obtains an account of his words in the newspapers.And, not the halls of parliament, but the great public meeting,
represents the largest direct forum of listeners.For, in the latter, there are thousands of people who have come
only to hear what the speaker has to say to them, while in the halls of
parliament there are only a few hundreds, and most of these are present
only to collect their attendance fees, and cer-tainly not to be illuminated
by the wisdom of this or that fellow 'representative of the people.'And above all:This is always the same public, which will never learn anything
new, since, aside from the intelligence, it is lacking in the very rudiments
of will.Never will one of these representatives of the people honor
a superior truth of his own accord, and place himself in its service.No, this is something that not a single one of them will do
unless he has reason to hope that by such a shift he may save his mandate
for one more session. Only when it is in the air that the party in power
will come off badly in a coming election, will these ornaments of virility
shift to a party or tendency which they presume will come out better, though
you may be confident that this change of position usually occurs amidst
a cloudburst of moral justifications. Consequently, when an existing party
appears to be falling beneath the disfavor of the people to such an extent
that the probability of an annihilating defeat threatens, such a great shift
will always begin: then the parliamentary rats leave the party ship.All this has nothing to do with better knowledge or intentions,
but only with that prophetic gift which warns these parliamentary bedbugs
at the right moment and causes them to drop, again and again, into another
warm party bed.But to speak to such a 'forum' is really to cast pearls before
the well-known domestic beasts. It is truly not worth while. The result
can be nothing but zero.And that is just what it was.The Pan-German deputies could talk their throats hoarse: the
effect was practically nil.The press either killed them with silence or mutilated their
speeches in such a way that any coherence, and often even the sense, was
twisted or entirely lost, and public opinion received a very poor picture
of the aims of the new movement. What the various gentlemen said was quite
unimportant; the important thing was what people read about them. And this
was an extract from their speeches, so disjointed that it could-as intended-
only seem absurd. The only forum to which they really spoke consisted of
five hundred parliamentarians, and that is enough said.But the worst was the following:The Pan-German movement could count on success only if it realized
from the very first day that what was required was not a new party, but
a new philosophy. Only the latter could produce the inward power to fight
this gigantic struggle to its end. And for this, only the very best and
courageous minds can serve as leaders.If the struggle for a philosophy is not lead by heroes prepared
to make sacrifices, there will, in a short time, cease to be any warriors
willing to die. The man who is fighting for his own existence cannot have
much left over for the community.In order to maintain this requirement, every man must know that
the new movement can offer the present nothing but honor and fame in posterity.
The more easily attainable posts and offices a movement has to hand out,
the more inferior stuff it will attract, and in the end these political
hangers-on overwhelm a successful party in such number that the honest fighter
of former days no longer recognizes the old movement and the new arrivals
definitely reject him as an unwelcome intruder. When this happens, the 'mission'
of such a movement is done for.As soon as the Pan-German movement sold its soul to parlia-ment,
it attracted 'parliamentarians' instead of leaders and fighters.Thus it sank to the level of the ordinary political parties
of the day and lost the strength to oppose a catastrophic destiny with the
defiance of martyrdom. Instead of fighting, it now learned to
make speeches and 'negotiate.' And in a short time the new parliamentarian
found it a more attractive, because less dangerous, duty to fight for the
new philosophy with the 'spiritual' weapons of parliamentary eloquence,
than to risk his own life, if necessary, by throwing himself into a struggle
whose issue was uncertain and which in any case could bring him no profit.Once they had members in parliament, the supporters outside
began to hope and wait for miracles which, of course, did not occur and
could not occur. For this reason they soon became impatient, for even what
they heard from their own deputies was by no means up to the expectations
of the voters. This was perfectly natural, since the hostile press took
good care not to give the people any faithful picture of the work of the
Pan-German deputies.The more the new representatives of the people developed a taste
for the somewhat gentler variety of 'revolutionary' struggle in parliament
and the provincial diets, the less prepared they were to return to the more
dangerous work of enlightening the broad masses of the people. The mass
meeting, the only way to exert a truly effective, because personal, influence
on large sections of the people and thus possibly to win them, was thrust
more and more into the background.Once the platform of parliament was definitely substituted for
the beer table of the meeting hall, and from this forum speeches were poured,
not into the people, but on the heads of their so called 'elect,' the Pan-German
movement ceased to be a movement of the people and in a short time dwindled
into an academic discussion club to be taken more or less seriously.Consequently, the bad impression transmitted by the press was
in no way corrected by personal agitation at meetings by the individual
gentlemen, with the result that finally the word 'PanGerman' began to have
a very bad sound in the ears of the broad masses.For let it be said to all our present-day fops and knights of
the pen: the greatest revolutions in this world have never been directed
by a goose-quill!No, to the pen it has always been reserved to provide their
theoretical foundations.But the power which has always started the greatest religious
and political avalanches in history rolling has from time immemorial been
the magic power of the spoken word, and that alone.Particularly the broad masses of the people can be moved only
by the power of speech. And all great movements are popular movements, volcanic
eruptions of human passions and emotional sentiments, stirred either by
the cruel Goddess of Distress or by the firebrand of the word hurled among
the masses; they are not the lemonade-like outpourings of literary aesthetes
and drawingroom heroes.Only a storm of hot passion can turn the destinies of peoples,
and he alone can arouse passion who bears it within himself.It alone gives its chosen one the words which like hammer blows
can open the gates to the heart of a people.But the man whom passion fails and whose lips are sealed- he
has not been chosen by Heaven to proclaim its will.Therefore, let the writer remain by his ink-well, engaging in
'theoretical' activity, if his intelligence and ability are equal to it;
for leadership he is neither born nor chosen.A movement with great aims must therefore be anxiously on its
guard not to lose contact with the broad masses.It must examine every question primarily from this standpoint
and make its decisions accordingly.It must, furthermore, avoid everything which might diminish
or even weaken its ability to move the masses, not for 'demagogic' reasons,
but in the simple knowledge that without the mighty force of the mass of
a people, no great idea, however lofty and noble it may seem, can be realized.Hard reality alone must determine the road to the goal; unwillingness
to travel unpleasant roads only too often in this world means to renounce
the goal; which may or may not be what you want.As soon as the Pan-German movement by its parliamentary attitude
had shifted the weight of its activity to parliament instead of the people,
it lost the future and instead won cheap successes of the moment.It chose the easier struggle and thereby became unworthy of
ultimate victory.Even in Vienna I pondered this very question with the greatest
care, and in the failure to recognize it saw one of the main causes of the
collapse of the movement which in those days, in my opinion, was predestined
to undertake the leadership of the German element.The first two mistakes which caused the Pan-German movement
to founder were related to each other. Insufficient knowledge of the inner
driving forces of great revolutions led to an insufficient estimation of
the importance of the broad masses of the people; from this resulted its
insufficient interest in the social question, its deficient and inadequate
efforts to win the soul of the lower classes of the nation, as well as its
over-favorable attitude toward parliament.If they had recognized the tremendous power which at all times
must be attributed to the masses as the repository of revolutionary resistance,
they would have worked differently in social and propagandist matters. Then
the movement's center of gravity would not have been shifted to parliament,
but to the workshop and the street.Likewise the third error finds its ultimate germ in failure
to recognize the value of the masses, which, it is true, need superior minds
to set them in motion in a given direction, but which then, like a flywheel,
lend the force of the attack momentum and uniform persistence.The hard struggle which the Pan-germans fought with the Catholic
Church can be accounted for only by their insufficient understanding of
the spiritual nature of the people.The causes for the new party's violent attack on Rome were as
follows:As soon as the House of Habsburg had definitely made up its
mind to reshape Austria into a Slavic state, it seized upon every means
which seemed in any way suited to this tendency. Even religious institutions
were, without the
slightest qualms, harnessed to the service of the new ' state idea ' by
this unscrupulous ruling house.The use of Czech pastorates and their spiritual shepherds was
but one of the many means of attaining this goal, a general Slavization
of Austria. The process took approximately the following form:Czech pastors were appointed to German communities; slowly but
surely they began to set the interests of the Czech people above the interests
of the churches, becoming germ-cells of the de-Germanization process. The German clergy did practically nothing to counter these methods.
Not only were they completely useless for carrying on this struggle in a
positive German sense; they were even unable to oppose the necessary resistance
to the attacks of the adversary. Indirectly, by the misuse of religion on
the one hand, and owing to insufficient defense on the other, Germanism
was slowly but steadily forced back.If in small matters the situation was as described, in big things,
unfortunately, it was not far different.Here, too, the anti-German efforts of the Habsburgs did not
encounter the resistance they should have, especially on the part of the
high clergy, while the defense of German interests sank completely into
the background.The general impression could only be that the Catholic clergy
as such was grossly infringing on German rights.Thus the Church did not seem to feel with the German people,
but to side unjustly with the enemy. The root of the whole evil lay, particularly
in Schonerer's opinion, in the fact that the di-recting body of the Catholic
Church was not in Germany, and that for this very reason alone it was hostile
to the interests of our nationality.The so-called cultural problems, in this as in virtually every
other connection in Austria at that time, were relegated almost entirely
to the background. The attitude of the Pan-German movement toward the Catholic
Church was determined far less by its position on science, etc., than by
its inadequacy in the championing of German rights and, conversely, its
continued aid and comfort to Slavic arrogance and greed.Georg Schonerer was not the man to do things by halves. He took
up the struggle toward the Church in the conviction that by it alone he
could save the German people. The 'AwayfromRome' movement seemed the most
powerful, though, to be sure, the most difficult, mode of attack, which
would inevitably shatter the hostile citadel. If it was successful, the
tragic church schism in Germany would be healed, and it was possible that
the inner strength of the Empire and the German nation would gain enormously
by such a victory.
But neither the premise nor the inference of this struggle was correct.
Without doubt the national force of resistance of the Catholic clergy of
German nationality, in all questions connected with Germanism, was less
than that of their non-German, particularly Czech, brethren.Likewise only an ignoramus could fail to see that an offensive
in favor of German interests was something that practically never occurred
to the German clergyman.And anyone who was not blind was forced equally to admit that
this was due primarily to a circumstance under which all of us Germans have
to suffer severely: that is, the objectivity of our attitude toward our
nationality as well as everything else.
While the Czech clergyman was subjective in his attitude toward his people
and objective only toward the Church, the German pastor was subjectively
devoted to the Church and remained objective toward the nation. A phenomenon
which, to our misfortune, we can observe equally well in thousands of other
cases.
This is by no means a special legacy of Catholicism, but with us it quickly
corrodes almost every institution, whether it be governmental or ideal.Just compare the position which our civil servants, for example,
take toward the attempts at a national awakening with the position which
in such a case the civil servants of another people would take. Or does
anyone believe that an officers' corps anywhere else in the world would
subordinate the interests of the nation amid mouthings about 'state authority,'
in the way that has been taken for granted in our country for the last five
years, in fact, has been viewed as especially meritorious? In the Jewish
question, for example, do not both denominations today take a standpoint
which corresponds neither to the requirements of the nation nor to the real
needs of religion? Compare the attitude of a Jewish rabbi in all questions
of even the slightest importance for the Jews as a race with the attitude
of by far the greatest part of our clergy-of both denominations, if you
please!We always find this phenomenon when it is a question of defending
an abstract idea as such.'State authority,' 'democracy,' 'pacifism,' 'international solidarity,'
etc., are all concepts which with us nearly always become so rigid and purely
doctrinaire that subsequently all purely national vital necessities are
judged exclusively from their standpoint.This catastrophic way of considering all matters from the angle
of a preconceived opinion kills every possibility of thinking oneself subjectively
into a matter which is objectively opposed to one's own doctrine, and finally
leads to a total reversal of means and ends. People will reject any attempt
at a national uprising if it can take place only after the elimination of
a bad, ruinous regime, since this would be an offense against 'state authority,'
and ' state authority ' is not a means to an end, but in the eyes of such
a fanatical objectivist rather represents the aim itself, which is sufficient
to fill out his whole lamentable life. Thus, for example, they would indignantly
oppose any attempt at a dictatorship, even if it was represented by a Frederick
the Great and the momentary political comedians of a parliamentary majority
were incapable dwarfs or really inferior characters, just because the law
of democracy seems holier to such a principle-monger than the welfare of
a nation. The one will therefore defend the worst tyranny, a tyranny which
is ruining the people, since at the moment it embodies 'state authority,'
while the other rejects even the most beneficial government as soon as it
fails to satisfy his conception of 'democracy.'In exactly the same way, our German pacifist will accept in
silence the bloodiest rape of our nation at-the hands of the most vicious
military powers if a change in this state of affairs can be achieved only
by resistance-that is, force-for this would be contrary to the spirit of
his peace society. Let the international German Socialist be plundered in
solidarity by the rest of the world, he will accept it with brotherly affection
and no thought of retribution or even defense, just because he is-a German.This may be a sad state of affairs, but to change a thing means
to recognize it first.The same is true of the weak defense of German interests by
a part of the clergy.It is neither malicious ill will in itself, nor is it caused,
let us say, by commands from 'above'; no, in such a lack of national determination
we see merely the result of an inadequate education in Germanism from childhood
up and, on the other hand, an unlimited submission to an idea which has
become an idol.Education in democracy, in socialism of the international variety,
in pacifism, etc., is a thing so rigid and exclusive, so purely subjective
from these points of view, that the general picture of the remaining world
is colored by this dogmatic conception, while the attitude toward Germanism
has remained exceedingly objective from early youth. Thus, the pacifist,
by giving himself subjectively and entirely to his idea, will, in the presence
of any menace to his people, be it ever so grave and unjust, always (in
so far as he is a German) seek after the objective right and never from
pure instinct of self-preservation join the ranks of his herd and fight
with them.To what extent this is also true of the different religions
is shown by the following:Protestantism as such is a better defender of the interests
of Germanism, in so far as this is grounded in its genesis and later tradition:
it fails, however, in the moment when this defense of national interests
must take place in a province which is either absent from the general line
of its ideological world and traditional development, or is for some reason
rejected.Thus, Protestantism will always stand up for the advancement
of all Germanism as such, as long as matters of inner purity or national
deepening as well as German freedom are involved since all these things
have a firm foundation in its own being; but it combats with the greatest
hostility any attempt to rescue the nation from the embrace of its most
mortal enemy, since its attitude toward the Jews just happens to be more
or less dogmatically established. Yet here we are facing the question without
whose solution all other attempts at a German reawakening or resurrection
are and remain absolutely senseless and impossible.In my Vienna period I had leisure and opportunity enough for
an unprejudiced examination of this question too, and in my daily contacts
was able to establish the correctness of this view a thousand times over.In this focus of the most varied nationalities, it immediately
becomes clearly apparent that the German pacifist is alone in always attempting
to view the interests of his own nation objectively, but that the Jew will
never regard those of the Jewish people in this way; that only the German
Socialist is linternaticnal' in a sense which forbids him to beg justice
for his own people except by whimpering and whining in the midst of his
international comrades, but never a Czech or a Pole, etc.; in short, I recognized
even then that the misfortune lies only partly in these doctrines, and partly
in our totally inadequate education in national sentiment and a resultant
lack of devotion to our nation.Thus, the first theoretical foundation for a struggle of the
PanGerman movement against Catholicism as such was lacking.Let the German people be raised from childhood up with that
exclusive recognition of the rights of their own nationality, and let not
the hearts of children be contaminated with the curse of our 'objectivity,'
even in matters regarding the preservation of their own ego. Then in a short
time it will be seen that (presupposing, of course, a radically national
government) in Germany, as in Ireland, Poland, or France, the Catholic will
always be a German.The mightiest proof of this was provided by that epoch which
for the last time led our nation into a life-and-death struggle before the
judgment seat of history in defense of its own existence.As long as leadership from above was not lacking, the people
fulfilled their duty and obligation overwhelmingly. Whether Protestant pastor
or Catholic priest, both together contributed infinitely in maintaining
for so long our power to resist, not only at the front but also at home.
In these years and particularly at the first flare, there really existed
in both camps but a single holy German Reich, for whose existence and future
each man turned to his own heaven.The Pan-German movement in Austria should have asked itself
one question:
Is the preservation of German-Austrianism possible under a Catholic faith,
or is it not? If yes, the political party had no right to concern itself
with religious or denominational matters; if not, then what was needed was
a religious reformation and never a political party.Anyone who thinks he can arrive at a religious reformation by
the detour of a political organization only shows that he has no glimmer
of knowledge of the development of religious ideas or dogmas and their ecclesiastical
consequences.Verily a man cannot serve two masters. And I consider the foundation
or destruction of a religion far greater than the foundation or destruction
of a state, let alone a party.And let it not be said that this is only a defense against the
attacks from the other side!It is certain that at all times unscrupulous scoundrels have
not shunned to make even religion the instrument of their political bargains
(for that is what such rabble almost always and exclusively deal in): but
just as certainly it is wrong to make a religious denomination responsible
for a
number of tramps who abuse it in exactly the same way as they would probably
make anything else serve their low instincts.Nothing can better suit one of these parliamentarian good-for-nothings
and lounge-lizards than when an opportunity is offered to justify his political
swindling, even after the fact.For as soon as religion or even denomination is made responsible
for his personal vices and attacked on that ground, this shameless liar
sets up a great outcry and calls the whole world to witness that his behavior
has been completely justified and that he alone and his eloquence are to
be thanked for saving religion of the Church. The public, as stupid as it
is forgetful, is, as a rule, prevented by the very outcry from recognizing
the real instigator of the struggle or else has forgotten him, and the scoundrel
has to all intents and purposes achieved his goal.The sly fox knows perfectly well that this has nothing to do
with religion; and he will silently laugh up his sleeve while his honest
but clumsy opponent loses the game and one day, despairing of the loyalty
and faith of humanity, withdraws from it all.And in another sense it would be unjust to make religion as
such or even the Church responsible for the failings of individuals. Compare
the greatness of the visible organization before our eyes with the average
fallibility of man in general, and you will have to admit that in it the
relation of good and evil is better than anywhere else. To be sure, even
among the priests themselves there are those to whom their holy office is
only a means of satisfying their political ambition, yes, who in political
struggle forget, in a fashion which is often more than deplorable that they
are supposed to be the guardians of a higher truth and not the representatives
of lies and slander-but for one such unworthy priest there are a thousand
and more honorable ones, shepherds most loyally devoted to their mission,
who, in our present false and decadent period, stand out of the general
morass like little islands.No more than I condemn, or would be justified in condemning,
the Church as such when a degenerate individual in a cassock obscenely transgresses
against morality, do I condemn it when one of the many others besmirches
and betrays his nationality at a time when this is a daily occurrence anyway.
Particularly today, we must not forget that for one such Ephialtes there
are thousands who with bleeding heart feel the misfortune of their people
and like the best of our nation long for the hour in which Heaven will smile
on us again.And if anyone replies that here we are not concerned with such
everyday problems, but with questions of principle and truth or dogmatic
content, we can aptly counter with another question:If you believe that you have been chosen by Fate to reveal the
truth in this matter, do so; but then have the courage to do so, not indirectly
through a political party-for this is a swindle; but for today's evil substitute
your future good.But if you lack courage, or if your good is not quite clear
even to yourself, then keep your fingers out of the matter; in any case,
do not attempt by roundabout sneaking through a political movement to do
what you dare not do with an open vizor.Political parties have nothing to do with religious problems,
as long as these are not alien to the nation, undermining the morals and
ethics of the race; just as religion cannot be amalgamated with the scheming
of political parties.When Church dignitaries make use of religious institutions or
doctrines to injure their nation, we must never follow them on this path
and fight with the same methods.For the political leader the religious doctrines and institutions
of his people trust always remain inviolable; or else he has no right to
be in politics, but should become a reformer, if he has what it takes!Especially in Germany any other attitude would lead to a catastrophe.In my study of the Pan-German movement and its struggle against
Rome, I then, and even more in the years to come, arrived at the following
conviction: This movement's inadequate appreciation of the importance of
the social problem cost it the truly militant mass of the people; its entry
into parliament took away its mighty impetus and burdened it with all the
weaknesses peculiar to this institution; the struggle against the Catholic
Church made it impossible in numerous small and middle circles, and thus
robbed it of countless of the best elements that the nation can call its
own.The practical result of the Austrian Kulturkampf At was next
toTo be sure, it succeeded in tearing some hundred thousand members
away from the Church, yet without causing it any particular damage. In this
case the Church really had no need to shed tears over the lost 'lambs';
for it lost only those who had long ceased to belong to it. The difference
between the new reformation and the old one was that in the old days many
of the best people in the Church turned away from it through profound religious
conviction, while now only those who were lukewarm to begin with departed,
and this from 'considerations' of a political nature.And precisely from the political standpoint the result was just
as laughable as it was sad.Once again a promising political movement for the salvation
of the German nation had gone to the dogs because it had not been led with
the necessary cold ruthlessness, but had lost itself in fields which could
only lead to disintegration.For one thing is assuredly true:The Pan-German movement would never have made this mistake but
for its insufficient understanding of the psyche of the broad masses. If
its leaders had known that to achieve any success one should, on purely
psychological grounds, never show the masses two or more opponents, since
this leads to a total disintegration of their fighting power, for this reason
alone the thrust of the Pan-German movement would have been directed at
a single adversary. Nothing is more dangerous for a political party than
to be led by those jacks-of-all-trades who want everything but can never
really achieve anything.Regardless how much room for criticism there was in any religious
denomination a political party must never for a moment lose sight of the
fact that in all previous historical experience a purely political party
in such situations had never succeeded in producing a religious reformation.
And the aim of studying history is not to forget its lessons when occasion
arises for its practical application, or to decide that the present situation
is different after all, and that therefore its old eternal truths are no
longer applicable; no, the purpose of studying history is precisely its
lesson for the present. The man who cannot do this must not conceive of
himself as a political leader; in reality he is a shallow, though usually
very conceited, fool, and no amount of good will can excuse his practical
incapacity.In general the art of all truly great national leaders at all
times consists among other things primarily in not dividing the attention
of a people, but in concentrating it upon a single foe. The more unified
the application of a people's will to fight, the greater will be the magnetic
attraction of a movement and the mightier will be the impetus of the thrust.
It belongs to the genius of a great leader to make even adversaries far
removed from one another seem to belong to a single category, because in
weak and uncertain characters the knowledge of having different enemies
can only too readily lead to the beginning of doubt in their own right.Once the wavering mass sees itself in a struggle against too
many enemies, objectivity will put in an appearance, throwing open the question
whether all others are really wrong and only their own people or their own
movement are in the right.And this brings about the first paralysis of their own power.
Hence a multiplicity of different adversaries must always be
combined so that in the eyes of the masses of one's own supporters the struggle
is directed against only one enemy. This strengthens their faith in their
own right and enhances their bitterness against those who attack it.That the old Pan-German movement failed to understand this deprived
it of success.Its goal had been correct, its will pure, but the road it chose
was wrong. It was like a mountain climber who keeps the peak to be climbed
in view and who sets out with the greatest determination and energy, but
pays no attention to the trail, for his eyes are always on his goal, so
that he neither sees nor feels out the character of the ascent and thus
comes to grief in the end.The opposite state of affairs seemed to prevail with its great
competitor, the Christian Social Party.The road it chose was correct and well-chosen, but it lacked
clear knowledge of its goal.In nearly all the matters in which the Pan-German movement was
wanting, the attitude of the Christian Social Party was correct and well-planned.It possessed the necessary understanding for the importance
of the masses and from the very first day assured itself of at least a part
of them by open emphasis on its social character. By aiming essentially
at winning the small and lower middle classes and artisans, it obtained
a following as enduring as it was self-sacrificing. It avoided any struggle
against a religious institution and thus secured the support of that mighty
organization which the Church represents. Consequently, it possessed only
a single truly great central opponent. It recognized the value of large-scale
propaganda and was a virtuoso in influencing the psychological instincts
of the broad masses of its adherents.If nevertheless it was unable to achieve its goal and dream
of saving Austria, this was due to two deficiencies in its method and to
its lack of clarity concerning the aim itself.The anti-Semitism of the new movement was based on religious
ideas instead of racial knowledge. The reason for the intrusion of this
mistake was the same which brought about the second fallacyIf the Christian Social Party wanted to save Austria, then is;
the opinion of its founders it must not operate from the standpoint of the
racial principle, for if it did a dissolution of the state would, in a short
time, inevitably occur. Particularly the situation in Vienna itself, in
the opinion of the party leaders, demanded that all points which would divide
their following should be set aside as much as possible, and that all unifying
conceptions be emphasized in their stead.At that time Vienna was so strongly permeated especially with
Czech elements that only the greatest tolerance with regard to all racial
questions could keep them in a party which was not anti-German to begin
with. If Austria were to be saved, this was indispensable. And so they attempted
to win over small Czech artisans who were especially numerous in Vienna,
by a struggle against liberal Manchesterism, and in the struggle against
the Jews on a religious basis they thought they had discovered a slogan
transcending all of old Austria's national differences.It is obvious that combating Jewry on such a basis could provide
the Jews with small cause for concern. If the worst came to the worst, a
splash of baptismal water could always save the business and the Jew at
the same time. With such a superficial motivation, a serious scientific
treatment of the whole problem was never achieved, and as a result far too
many people, to whom this type of anti-Semitism was bound to be incomprehensible,
were repelled. The recruiting power of the idea was limited almost exclusively
to intellectually limited circles, unless true knowledge were substituted
for purely emotional feeling. The intelligentsia remained aloof as a matter
of principle. Thus the whole movement came to look more and more like an
attempt at a new conversion of the Jews, or perhaps even an expression of
a certain competitive envy. And hence the struggle lost the character of
an inner and higher consecration; to many, and not necessarily the worst
people, it came to seem immoral and reprehensible. Lacking was the conviction
that this was a vital question for all humanity, with the fate of all non-Jewish
peoples depending on its solution.Through this halfheartedness the anti-Semitic line of the Christian
Social Party lost its value.It was a sham anti-Semitism which was almost worse than none
at all; for it lulled people into security; they thought they had the foe
by the ears, while in reality they themselves were being led by the nose.
In a short time the Jew had become so accustomed to this type of anti-Semitism
that he would have missed its disappearance more than its presence inconvenienced
him.If in this the Christian Social Party had to make a heavy sacrifice
to the state of nationalities, they had to make an even greater one when
it came to championing Germanism as such.They could not be 'nationalistic' unless they wanted to lose
the ground from beneath their feet in Vienna. They hoped that by a pussy-footing
evasion of this question they could still save the Habsburg state, and by
that very thing they encompassed its ruin. And the movement lost the mighty
source of power which alone can fill a political party with inner strength
for any length of time.Through this alone the Christian Social Party became a party
like any other.In those days I followed both movements most attentively One,
by feeling the beat of its innermost heart, the other, carried away by admiration
for the unusual man who even then seemed to me a bitter symbol of all Austrian
Germanism.When the mighty funeral procession bore the dead mayor from
the City Hall toward the Ring, I was among the many hundred thousands looking
on at the tragic spectacle. I was profoundly moved and my feelings told
me that the work, even of this man, was bound to be in vain, owing to the
fatal destiny which would inevitably lead this state to destruction. If
Dr. Karl Lueger had lived in Germany, he would have been ranked among the
great minds of our people; that he lived and worked in this impossible state
was the misfortune of his work and of himself.When he died, the little flames in the Balkans were beginning
to leap up more greedily from month to month, and it was a gracious fate
which spared him from witnessing what he still thought he could prevent.Out of the failure of the one movement and the miscarriage of
the other, I for my part sought to find the causes, and came to the certain
conviction that, quite aside from the impossibility of bolstering up the
state in old Austria, the errors of the two parties were as follows:The Pan-German movement was right in its theoretical view about
the aim of a German renascence, but unfortunate in its choice of methods.
It was nationalistic, but unhappily not socialistic enough to win the masses.
But its anti-Semitism was based on a correct understanding of the importance
of the racial problem, and not on religious ideas. Its struggle against
a definite denomination, however, was actually and tactically false.The Christian Social movement had an unclear conception of the
aim of a German reawakening, but had intelligence and luck in seeking its
methods as a party. It understood the importance of the social question,
erred in its struggle against the Jews, and had no notion of the power of
the national idea.If, in addition to its enlightened knowledge of the broad masses,
the Christian Social Party had had a correct idea of the importance of the
racial question, such as the Pan-German movement had achieved; and if, finally,
it had itself been nationalistic, or if the Pan-German movement, in addition
to its correct knowledge of the aim of the Jewish question, had adopted
the practical shrewdness of the Christian Social Party, especially in its
attitude toward socialism, there would have resulted a movement which even
then in my opinion might have successfully intervened in German destiny.If this did not come about, it was overwhelmingly due to the
nature of the Austrian state.Since I saw my conviction realized in no other party, I could
in the period that followed not make up my mind to enter, let alone fight
with, any of the existing organizations. Even then I regarded all political
movements as unsuccessful and unable to carry out a national reawakening
of the German people on a larger and not purely external scale.But in this period my inner revulsion toward the Habsburg state
steadily grew.The more particularly I concerned myself with questions of foreign
policy, the more my conviction rose and took root that this political formation
could result in nothing but the misfortune of Germanism. More and more clearly
I saw at last that the fate of the German nation would no longer be decided
here, but in the Reich itself. This was true, not only of political questions,
but no less for all manifestations of cultural life in general.Also in the field of cultural or artistic affairs, the Austrian
state showed all symptoms of degeneration, or at least of unimportance for
the German nation. This was most true in the field of architecture. The
new architecture could achieve no special successes in Austria, if for no
other reason because since the completion of the Ring its tasks, in Vienna
at least, had become insignificant in comparison with the plans arising
in Germany.Thus more and more I began to lead a double life; reason and
reality told me to complete a school as bitter as it was beneficial in Austria,
but my heart dwelt elsewhere.An oppressive discontent had seized possession of me, the more
I recognized the inner hollowness of this state and the impossibility of
saving it, and felt that in all things it could be nothing but the misfortune
of the German people.I was convinced that this state inevitably oppressed and handicapped
any really great German as, conversely, it would help every un-German figure.I was repelled by the conglomeration of races which the capital
showed me, repelled by this whole mixture of Czechs, Poles, Hungarians,
Ruthenians, Serbs, and Croats, and everywhere, the eternal mushroom of humanity-Jews
and more Jews.To me the giant city seemed the embodiment of racial desecration.The German of my youth was the dialect of Lower Bavaria, I could
neither forget it nor learn the Viennese jargon. The longer I lived in this
city, the more my hatred grew for the foreign mixture of peoples which had
begun to corrode this old site of German culture.The idea that this state could be maintained much longer seemed
to me positively ridiculous.Austria was then like an old mosaic; the cement, binding the
various little stones together, had grown old and begun to crumble; as long
as the work of art is not touched, it can continue to give a show of existence,
but as soon as it receives a blow, it breaks into a thousand fragments.
The question was only when the blow would come.Since my heart had never beaten for an Austrian monarchy, but
only for a German Reich, the hour of this state's downfall could only seem
to me the beginning of the redemption of the German nation.For all these reasons a longing rose stronger and stronger in
me, to go at last whither since my childhood secret desires and secret love
had drawn me.I hoped some day to make a name for myself as an architect and
thus, on the large or small scale which Fate would allot me, to dedicate
my sincere services to the nation.But finally I wanted to enjoy the happiness of living and working
in the place which some day would inevitably bring about the fulfillment
of my most ardent and heartfelt wish: the union of my beloved homeland with
the common fatherland, the German Reich.Even today many would be unable to comprehend the greatness
of such a longing, but I address myself to those to whom Fate has either
hitherto denied this, or from whom in harsh cruelty it has taken it away;
I address myself to all those who, detached from their mother country, have
to fight even for the holy treasure of their language, who are persecuted
and tortured for their loyalty to the fatherland, and who now, with poignant
emotion, long for the hour which will permit them to return to the heart
of their faithful mother; I address myself to all these, and I know that
they will understand me !Only he who has felt in his own skin what it means to be a German,
deprived of the right to belong to his cherished fatherland, can measure
the deep longing which burns at all times in the hearts of children separated
from their mother country. It torments those whom it fills and denies them
contentment and happiness until the gates of their father's house open,
and in the common Reich, common blood gains peace and tranquillity.Yet Vienna was and remained for me the hardest, though most
thorough, school of my life. I had set foot in this town while still half
a boy and I left it a man, grown quiet and grave. In it I obtained the foundations
for a philosophy in general and a political view in particular which later
I only needed to supplement in detail, but which never left me. But not
until today have I been able to estimate at their full value those years
of study.That is why I have dealt with this period at some length, because
it gave me my first visual instruction in precisely those questions which
belonged to the foundations of a party which, arising from smallest beginnings,
after scarcely five years is beginning to develop into a great mass movement.
I do not know what my attitude toward the Jews, Social Democracy, or rather
Marxism as a whole, the social question, etc., would be today if at such
an early time the pressure of destiny-and my own study -had not built up
a basic stock of personal opinions within me.For if the misery of the fatherland can stimulate thousands
and thousands of men to thought on the inner reasons for this collapse,
this can never lead to that thoroughness and deep insight which are disclosed
to the man who has himself mastered Fate only after years of struggle.


IN THE SPRING of 1912 I came at last to Munich.The city itself was as familiar to me as if I had lived for
years within its walls. This is accounted for by my study which at every
step had led me to this metropolis of German art. Not only has one not seen
Germany if one does not know Munich-no, above all, one does not know German
art if one has not seen Munich.In any case, this period before the War was the happiest and
by far the most contented of my life. Even if my earnings were still extremely
meager, I did not live to be able to paint, but painted only to be able
to secure my livelihood or rather to enable myself to go on studying. I
possessed the conviction that I should some day, in spite of all obstacles,
achieve the goal I had set myself. And this alone enabled me to bear all
other petty cares of daily existence lightly and without anxiety.
In addition to this, there was the heartfelt love which seized me for this
city more than for any other place that I knew, almost from the first hour
of my sojourn there. A German city! What a difference from Vienna! I grew
sick to my stomach when I even thought back on this Babylon of races. In
addition, the dialect, much closer to me, which particularly in my contacts
with Lower Bavarians, reminded me of my former childhood. There were a thousand
and more things which were or became inwardly dear and precious to me. But
most of all I was attracted by this wonderful marriage of primordial power
and fine artistic mood, this single line from the Hofbrauhaus to the Odeon,
from the October Festival to the Pinakothek, etc. If today I am more attached
to this city than to any other spot of earth in this world, it is partly
due to the fact that it is and remains inseparably bound up with the development
of my own life; if even then I achieved the happiness of a truly inward
contentment, it can be attributed only to the magic which the miraculous
residence of the Wittelsbachs exerts on every man who is blessed, not only
with a calculating mind but with a feeling soul.What attracted me most aside from my professional work was,
here again, the study of the political events of the day, among them particularly
the occurrences in the field of foreign affairs. I came to these latter
indirectly through the German alliance policy which from my Austrian days
I considered absolutely mistaken. However, the full extent of this self-deception
on the part of the Reich had not been clear to me in Vienna. In those days
I was inclined to assume-or perhaps I merely talked myself into it as an
excuse-that Berlin perhaps knew how weak and unreliable the ally would be
in reality, yet, for more or less mysterious reasons, held back this knowledge
in order to bolster up an alliance policy which after all Bismarck himself
had founded and the sudden cessation of which could not be desirable, if
for no other reason lest the lurking foreigner be alarmed in any way, or
the shopkeeper at home be worried.To be sure, my associations, particularly among the people itself,
soon made me see to my horror that this belief was false. To my amazement
I could not help seeing everywhere that even in otherwise well-informed
circles there was not the slightest glimmer of knowledge concerning the
nature of the Habsburg monarchy. Particularly the common people were caught
in the mad idea that the ally could be regarded as a serious power which
in the hour of need would surely rise to the situation. Among the masses
the monarchy was still regarded as a ' German' state on which we could count.
They were of the opinion that there, too, the power could be measured by
the millions as in Germany itself, and completely forgot that, in the first
place: Austria had long ceased to be a German state; and in the second place:
the internal conditions of this Empire were from hour to hour moving closer
to disintegration.I had come to know this state formation better than the so-called
official 'diplomats,' who blindly, as almost always, rushed headlong toward
catastrophe; for the mood of the people was always a mere discharge of what
was funneled into public opinion from above. But the people on top made
a cult of the 'ally,' as if it were the Golden Calf. They hoped to replace
by cordiality what was lacking in honesty. And words were always taken for
coin of the realm.
Even in Vienna I had been seized with anger when I reflected on the disparity
appearing from time to time between the speeches of the official statesmen
and the content of the Viennese press. And yet Vienna, in appearance at
least, was still a German city. How different it was if you left Vienna,
or rather German-Austria, and went to the Slavic provinces of the Empire
! You had only to take up the Prague newspapers to find out what they thought
of the whole exalted hocus-pocus of the Triple Alliance. There there was
nothing but bitter scorn and mockery for this 'masterpiece of statecraft.'
In the midst of peace, with both emperors pressing kisses of friendship
on each other's foreheads, the Czechs made no secret of the fact that this
alliance would be done for on the day when an attempt should be made to
translate it from the moonbeams of the Nibelungen ideal into practical reality.What excitement seized these same people several years later
when the time finally came for the alliances to show their worth and Italy
leapt out of the triple pact, leaving her two comrades in the lurch, and
in the end even becoming their enemy ! That anyone even for a moment should
have dared to believe in the possibility of such a miracle-to wit, the mirade
that Italy would fight side by side with Austria-could be nothing but incomprehensible
to anyone who was not stricken with diplomatic blindness. But in Austria
things were not a hair's-breadth different.In Austria the only exponents of the alliance idea were the
Habsburgs and the Germans. The Habsburgs, out of calculation and compulsion;
the Germans, from good faith and political-stupidity. From good faith, for
they thought that by the Triple Alliance they were performing a great service
for the German Reich itself, helping to strengthen and secure it; from political
stupidity, because neither did the first-mentioned occur, but on the contrary,
they thereby helped to chain the Reich to the corpse of a state which would
inevitably drag them both into the abyss, and above all because they themselves,
solely by virtue of this alliance, fell more and more a prey to de-Germanization.
For by the alliance with the Reich, the Habsburgs thought they could be
secure against any interference from this side, which unfortunately was
the case, and thus they were able far more easily and safely to carry through
their internal policy of slowly eliminating Germanism. Not only that in
view of our well-known ' objectivity' they had no need to fear any intervention
on the part of the Reich government, but, by pointing to the alliance, they
could also silence any embarrassing voice among the Austrian-Germans which
might rise in German quarters against Slavization of an excessively disgraceful
character.For what was the German in Austria to do if the Germans of the
Reich recognized and expressed confidence in the Habsburg government? Should
he offer resistance and be branded by the entire German public as a traitor
to his own nationality? When for decades he had been making the most enormous
sacrifices precisely for his nationality!But what value did this alliance have, once Germanism had been
exterminated in the Habsburg monarchy? Wasn't the value of the Triple Alliance
for Germany positively dependent on the preservation of German predominance
in Austria? Or did they really believe that they could live in an alliance
with a SlavicHabsburg Empire?The attitude of official German diplomacy and of all public
opinion toward the internal Austrian problem of nationalities was beyond
stupidity, it was positively insane ! They banked on an alliance, made the
future and security of a people of seventy millions dependent on it-and
looked on while the sole basis for this alliance was from year to year,
inexorably and by plan, being destroyed in the partner-nation. The day was
bound to come when a ' treaty ' with Viennese diplomacy would remain, but
the aid of an allied empire would be lost.With Italy this was the case from the very beginning.If people in Germany had only studied history a little more
clearly, and gone into the psycholog of nations, they would not have been
able to suppose even for an hour that the Quirinal and the Vienna Hofburg
would ever stand together n a common fighting front. Sooner would Italy
have turned into a volcano than a government have dared to send even a single
Italian to the battlefield for the fanatically hated Habsburg state, except
as an enemy. More than once in Vienna I saw outbursts of the passionate
contempt and bottomless hatred with which the Italian was ' devoted ' to
the Austrian state. The sins of the House of Habsburg against Italian freedom
and independence in the course of the centuries was too great to be forgotten,
even if the will to forget them had been present. And it was not present;
neither in the people nor in the Italian government. For Italy there were
therefore two possibilities for relations with Austna: either alliance or
war.By choosing the first, the Italians were able to prepare, undisturbed,
for the second.Especially since the relation of Austria to Russia had begun
to drive closer and closer to a military clash, the German alliance policy
was as senseless as it was dangerous.This was a classic case, bearing witness to the absence of any
broad and correct line of thinking.Why, then, was an alliance concluded? Only in order better to
guard the future of the Reich than, reduced to her own resources, she would
have been in a position to do. And this future of the Reich was nothing
other than the question of preserving the German people's possibility of
existence.Therefore the question could be formulated only as follows:What form must the life of the German nation assume in the tangible
future, and how can this development be provided with the necessary foundations
and the required security within the framework of general European relation
of forces?A clear examination of the premises for foreign activity on
the part of German statecraft inevitably led to the following conviction:Germany has an annual increase in population of nearly nine
hundred thousand souls. The difficulty of feeding this army of new citizens
must grow greater from year to year and ultimately end in catastrophe, unless
ways and means are found to forestall the danger of starvation and misery
in time.There were four ways of avoiding so terrible a development for
the future:1. Following the French example, the increase of births could
be artificially restricted, thus meeting the problem of overpopulationNature herself in times of great poverty or bad climactic conditions,
as well as poor harvest, intervenes to restrict the increase of population
of certain countries or races; this, to be sure, by a method as wise as
it is ruthless. She diminishes, not the power of procreation as such, but
the conservation of the procreated, by exposing them to hard trials and
deprivations with the result that all those who are less strong and less
healthy are forced back into the womb of the eternal unknown. Those whom
she permits to survive the inclemency of existence are a thousandfold tested
hardened, and well adapted to procreate-in turn, in order that the process
of thoroughgoing selection may begin again from the beginning. By thus brutally
proceeding against the individual and immediately calling him back to herself
as soon as he shows himself unequal to the storm of life, she keeps the
race and species strong, in fact, raises them to the highest accomplishments.At the same time the diminution of number strengthens the individual
and thus in the last analysis fortifies the species.It is different, however, when man undertakes the limitation
of his number. He is not carved of the same wood, he is ' humane.' He knows
better than the cruel queen of wisdom. He limits not the conservation of
the individual, but procreation itself. This seems to him, who always sees
himself and never the race, more human and more justified than the opposite
way. Unfortunately, however, the consequences are the reverse:While Nature, by making procreation free, yet submitting survival
to a hard trial, chooses from an excess number of individuals the best as
worthy of living, thus preserving them alone and in them conserving their
species, man limits procreation, but is hysterically concerned that once
a being is born it should be preserved at any price. This correction of
the divine will seems to him as wise as it is humane, and he takes delight
in having once again gotten the best of Nature and even having proved her
inadequacy. The number, to be sure, has really been limited, but at the
same time the value of the individual has dirninished; this, however, is
something the dear little ape of the Almighty does not want to see or hear
about.For as soon as procreation as such is limited and the number
of births diminished, the natural struggle for existence which leaves only
the strongest and healthiest alive is obviously replaced by the obvious
desire to ' save ' even the weakest and most sickly at any price, and this
plants the seed of a future generation which must inevitably grow more and
more deplorable the longer this mockery of Nature and her will continues.And the end will be that such a people will some day be deprived
of its existence on this earth; for man can defy the eternal laws of the
will to conservation for a certain time, but sooner or later vengeance comes.
A stronger race will drive out the weak, for the vital urge in its ultimate
form will, time and again, burst all the absurd fetters of the so-called
humanity of individuals, in order to replace it by the humanity of Nature
which destroys the weak to give his place to the strong.Therefore, anyone who wants to secure the existence of the German
people by a self-limitation of its reproduction is robbing it of its future.2. A second way would be one which today we, time and time again,
see proposed and recommended: internal colonization. This is a proposal
which is well meant by just as many as by most people it is misunderstood,
thus doing the greatest conceivable damage that anyone can imaginedWithout doubt the productivity of the soil can be increased
up to a certain limit. But only up to a certain limit, and not continuously
without end. For a certain time it will be possible to compensate for the
increase of the German people without having to think of hunger, by increasing
the productivity of our soil. But beside this, we must face the fact that
our demands on life ordinarily nse even more rapidly than the number of
the population Man's requirements with regard to food and clothing increase
from year to year, and even now, for example, stand in no relation to the
requirements of our ancestors, say a hundred years ago. It IS, therefore,
insane to believe that every rise in production provides the basis for an
increase in population: no; this is true only up to a certain degree, since
at least a part of the increased production of the soil is spent in satisfying
the increased needs of men. But even with the greatest limitation on the
one hand and the utmost industry on the other, here again a limit will one
day be reached, created by the soil itself. With the utmost toil it will
not be possible to obtain any more from its and then, though postponed for
a certain time, catastrophe again manifests itself. First, there will be
hunger from time to time, when there is famine, etc. As the population increases,
this will happen more and more often, so that finally it will only be absent
when rare years of great abundance fill the granaries. But at length the
time approaches when even then it will not be possible to satisfy men's
needs, and hunger has become the eternal companion of such a people. Then
Nature must help again and make a choice among those whom she has chosen
for life; but again man helps himself; that is, he turns to artificial restriction
of his increase with all the above-indicated dire consequences for race
and species.The objection may still be raised that this future will face
the whole of humanity in any case and that consequently the individual nation
can naturally not avoid this fate.At first glance this seems perfectly correct. Yet here the following
must be borne in mind:Assuredly at a certain time the whole of humanity will be compelled,
in consequence of the impossibility of making the fertility of the soil
keep pace with the continuous increase in population, to halt the increase
of the human race and either let Nature again decide or, by self-help if
possible, create the necessary balance, though, to be sure, in a more correct
way than is done today. But then this will strike all peoples, while today
only those races are stricken with such suffering which no longer possess
the force and strength to secure for themselves the necessary territories
in this world. For as matters stand there are at the present time on this
earth immense areas of unusued soil, only waiting for the men to till them.
But it is equally true that Nature as such has not reserved this soil for
the future possession of any particular nation or race; on the contrary,
this soil exists for the people which possesses the force to take it and
the industry to cultivate it.Nature knows no political boundaries. First, she puts living
creatures on this globe and watches the free play of forces. She then confers
the master's right on her favorite child, the strongest in courage and industry.When a people limits itself to internal colonization because
other races are clinging fast to greater and greater surfaces of this earth,
it will be forced to have recourse to self-limitation at a time when the
other peoples are still continuing to increase. Some day this situation
will arise, and the smaller the living space at the disposal of the people,
the sooner it will happen. Since in general, unfortunately, the best nations,
or, even more correctly, the only truly cultured races, the standard-bearers
of all human progress, all too frequently resolve in their pacifistic blindness
to renounce new acquisitions of soil and content themselves with 'internal'
colonization, while the inferior races know how to secure immense living
areas in this world for themselves-this would lead to the following final
result:The culturally superior, but less ruthless races, would in consequence
of their limited soil, have to limit their increase at a time when the culturally
inferior but more brutal and more natural t peoples, in consequence of their
greater living areas, would still be in a position to increase without limit.
In other words: some day the world will thus come into possession of the
culturally inferior but more active men.Then, though in a perhaps very distant future, there will be
but two possibilities either the world will be governed according to the
ideas of our modern democracy, and then the weight of any decision will
result in favor of the numerically stronger races, or the world will be
dominated in accordance with the laws of the natural order of force, and
then it is the peoples of brutal will who will conquer, and consequently
once again not the nation of selfrestriction.No one can doubt that this world will some day be exposed to
the severest struggles for the existence of mankind. In the end, only the
urge for self-preservation can conquer. Beneath it socalled humanity, the
expression of a mixture of stupidity, cowardice, and know-it-all conceit,
will melt like snow in the March sun. Mankind has grown great in eternal
struggle, and only in eternal peace does it perish.For us Germans the slogan of 'inner colonization' is catastrophic,
if for no other reason because it automatically reinforces us in the opinion
that we have found a means which, in accordance with the pacifistic tendency,
allows us ' to earn ' our right to exist by labor in a life of sweet slumbers.
Once this doctrine were taken seriously in our country, it would mean the
end of every exertion to preserve for ourselves the place which is our due.
Once the average German became convinced that he could secure his life and
future in this way, all attempts at an active, and hence alone fertile,
defense of German vital necessities would be doomed to failure. In the face
of such an attitude on the part of the nation any really beneficial foreign
policy could be regarded as buried, and with it the future of the German
people as a whole.Taking these consequences into account, it is no accident that
it is always primarily the Jew who tries and succeeds in planting such mortally
dangerous modes of thought in our people. He knows his customers too well
not to realize that they gratefully let themselves be swindled by any gold-brick
salesman who can make them think he has found a way to play a little trick
on Nature, to make the hard, inexorable struggle for existence superfluous,
and instead, sometimes by work, but sometimes by plain doing nothing, depending
on how things 'come out,' to become the lord of the planet.It cannot be emphasized sharply enough that any German internal
colonization must serve to eliminate social abuses particularly to withdraw
the soil from widespread speculation, best can never suffice to secure the
future of the nation without the acquisition of new soil.If we do not do this, we shall in a short time have arrived,
not only at the end of our soil, but also at the end of our strength.Finally, the following must be stated:The limitation to a definite small area of soil, inherent in
internal colonization, like the same final effect obtained by restriction
of procreation, leads to an exceedingly unfavorable politicomilitary situation
in the nation in question.The size of the area inhabited by a people constitutes in itself
an essential factor for determining its outward security. The greater the
quantity of space at the disposal of a people, the greater its natural protection;
for military decisions against peoples living in a small restricted area
have always been obtained more quickly and hence more easily, and in particular
more effectively and completely than can, conversely, be possible against
territorially extensive states. In the size of a state's territory there
always lies a certain protection against frivolous attacks, since success
can be achieved only after hard struggles, and therefore the risk of a rash
assault will seem too great unless there are quite exceptional grounds for
it. Hence the very size of a state offers in itself a basis for more easily
preserving the freedom and independence of a people, while, conversely,
the smallness of such a formation is a positive invitation to seizure.Actually the two first possibilities for creating a balance
between the rising population and the stationary amount of soil were rejected
in the so-called national circles of the Reich. The reasons for this position
were, to be sure, different from those above mentioned: government circles
adopted a negative attitude toward the limitation of births out of a certain
moral feeling; they indignantly rejected internal colonization because in
it they scented an attack against large landholdings and therein the beginning
of a wider struggle against private property in general. In view of the
form in which particularly the latter panacea was put forward, they may
very well have been right in this assumption.On the whole, the defense against the broad masses was not very
skillful and by no means struck at the heart of the problem.
Thus there remained but two ways of securing work and bread for the rising
population.3. Either new soil could be acquired and the superfluous millions
sent off each year, thus keeping the nation on a selfsustaining basis; or
we could4. Produce for foreign needs through industry and commerce,
and defray the cost of living from the proceeds.In other words: either a territorial policy, or a colonial and
commercial policy.Both ways were contemplated, examined, recommended, and combated
by different political tendencies, and the last was finally taken.The healthier way of the two would, to be sure, have been the
first.The acquisition of new soil for the settlement of the excess
population possesses an infinite number of advantages, particularly if wee
turn from the present to the future.For once thing, the possibility of preserving a healthy peasant
class as a foundation for a whole nation can never be valued highly enough.
Many of our present-day sufferings are only the consequence of the unhealthy
relationship between rural and city population A solid stock of small and
middle peasants has at all times been the best defense against social ills
such as we possess today. And, moreover this is the only solution which
enables a nation to earn its daily bread within the inner circuit of its
economy. Industry and commerce recede from their unhealthy leading position
and adjust themselves to the general framework of a national economy of
balanced supply and demand. Both thus cease to be the basis of the nation's
sustenance and become a mere instrument to that end. Since they now have
only a balance ' Aberdeen domestic production and demand in all fields,
they make the Subsistence of the people as a whole more or less independent
foreign countries, and thus help to secure the freedom of the stite and
the independence of the nation, particularly in difficult Periods.
It must be said that such a territorial policy cannot be fulfilled in the
Cameroons, but today almost exclusively in Europe. We must, therefore, coolly
and objectively adopt the standpoint that it can certainly not be the intention
of Heaven to give one people fifty times as much land and soil in this world
as another. In this case we must not let political boundaries obscure for
us the boundaries of eternal justice. If this earth really has room for
all to live in, let us be given the soil we need for our livelihood.True, they will no t willingly do this. But then the law of
selfpreservaion goes into effect; and what is refused to amicable methods,
it is up to the fist to take. If our forefathers had let their decisions
depend on the same pacifistic nonsense as our contemporaries, we should
possess only a third of our present territory; but in that case there would
scarcely be any German people for us to worry about in Europe today. No-it
is to our natural determination to fight for our own existence that we owe
the two Ostmarks of the Reich and hence that inner strength arising from
the greatness of our state and national territory which alone has enabled
us to exist up to the present.And for another reason this would have been the correct solutionToday many European states are like pyramids stood on their
heads. Their European area is absurdly small in comparison to their weight
of colonies, foreign trade, etc. We may say: summit in Europe, base in the
whole world; contrasting with the American Union which possesses its base
in its own continent and touches the rest of the earth only with its summit.
And from this comes the immense inner strength of this state and the weakness
of most European colonial powers.Nor is England any proof to the contrary, since in consideration
of the British Empire we too easily forget the Anglo-Saxon world as such.
The position of England, if only because of her linguistic and cultural
bond with the American Union, can be compared to no other state in Europe.For Germany, consequently, the only possibility for carrying
out a healthy territorial policy lay in the acquisition of new land in Europe
itself. Colonies cannot serve this purpose unless they seem in large part
suited for settlement by Europeans. But in the nineteenth century such colonial
territories were no longer obtainable by peaceful means. Consequently, such
a colonial policy could only have been carried out by means of a hard struggle
which, however, would have been carried on to much better purpose, not for
territories outside of Europe, but for land on the home continent itself.Such a decision, it is true, demands undivided devotion. It
is not permissible to approach with half measures or even with hesitation
a task whose execution seems possible only by the harnessing of the very
last possible ounce of energy. This means that the entire political leadership
of the Reich should have devoted itself to this exclusive aim; never should
any step have been taken, guided by other considerations than the recognition
of this task and its requirements. It was indispensable to see dearly that
this aim could be achieved only by struggle, and consequently to face the
contest of arms with calm and composure.All alliances, therefore, should have been viewed exclusively
from this standpoint and judged according to their possible utilization.
If land was desired in Europe, it could be obtained by and large only at
the expense of Russia, and this meant that the new Reich must again set
itself on the march along the road of the Teutonic Knights of old, to obtain
by the German sword sod for the German plow and daily bread for the nation.For such a policy there was but one ally in Europe: England.With England alone was it possible, our rear protected, to begin
the new Germanic march. Our right to do this would have been no less than
the right of our forefathers. None of our pacifists refuses to eat the bread
of the East, although the first plowshare in its day bore the name of 'sword'
!Consequently, no sacrifice should have been too great for winning
England's willingness. We should have renounced colonies and sea power,
and spared English industry our competition.Only an absolutely clear orientation could lead to such a goal:
renunciation of world trade and colonies; renunciation of a German war fleet;
concentration of all the state's instruments of power on the land army.The result, to be sure, would have been a momentary limitation
but a great and mighty future.There was a time when England would have listened to reason
on this point, since she was well aware that Germany as a result of her
increased population had to seek some way out and either find it with England
in Europe or without England in the world.And it can primarily be attributed to this realization if at
the turn of the century London itself attempted to approach Germany. For
the first time a thing became evident which in the last years we have had
occasion to observe in a truly terrifying fashion. People were unpleasantly
affected by the thought of having to pull Fngland's chestnuts out of the
fire; as though there ever could be an alliance on any other basis than
a mutual business deal. And with England such a deal could very well have
been made. British diplomacy was still clever enough to realize that no
service can be expected without a return.Just suppose that an astute German foreign policy had taken
over the role of Japan in 1904, and we can scarcely measure the consequences
this would have had for Germany.There would never have been any 'World War.'The bloodshed in the year 1904 would have saved ten times as
much in the years 1914 to 1918.And what a position Germany would occupy in the world today!In that light, to be sure, the alliance with Austria was an
absurdity.For this mummy of a state allied itself with Germany, not in
order to fight a war to its end, but for the preservation of an eternal
peace which could astutely be used for the slow but certain extermination
of Germanism in the monarchy.This alliance was an impossibility for another reason: because
we could not expect a state to take the offensive in championing national
German interests as long as this state did not possess the power and determination
to put an end to the process of de-Germanization on its own immediate borders.
If Germany did not possess enough national awareness and ruthless determination
to snatch power over the destinies of ten million national comrades from
the hands of the impossible Habsburg state, then truly we had no right to
expect that she would ever lend her hand to such farseeing and bold plans.
The attitude of the old Reich on the Austrian question was the touchstone
of its conduct in the struggle for the destiny of the whole nation.In any case we were not justified in looking on, as year after
year Germanism was increasingly repressed, since the value of Aushia's fitness
for alliance was determined exclusively by the preservation of the German
element.This road, however, was not taken at all.These people feared nothing so much as struggle, yet they were
finally forced into it at the most unfavorable hour.They wanted to run away from destiny, and it caught up with
them. They dreamed of preserving world peace, and landed in the World War.And this was the most significant reason why this third way
of molding the German future was not even considered. They knew that the
acquisition of new soil was possible only in the East, they saw the struggle
that would be necessary and yet wanted peace at any price; for the watchword
of German foreign policy had long ceased to be: preservation of the German
nation by all methods; but rather: preservation of world peace by all means.
With what success, everyone knows.I shall return to this point in particular.Thus there remained the fourth possibilityIndustry and world trade, sea power and colonies.Such a development, to be sure, was at first easier and also
more quickly attainable. The settlement of land is a slow process, often
lasting centuries; in fact, its inner strength is to be sought precisely
in the fact that it is not a sudden blaze, but a gradual yet solid and continuous
growth, contrasting with an industrial development which can be blown up
in the course of a few years, but in that case is more like a soapbubble
than solid strength. A fieet, to be sure, can be built more quickly than
farms can be established in stubborn struggle and settled with peasants,
but it is also more rapidly destroyed than the latter.If, nevertheless, Germany took this road, she should at least
have clearly recognized that this development would some day likewise end
in struggle. Only children could have thought that they could get their
bananas in the 'peaceful contest of nations,' by friendly and moral conduct
and constant emphasis on their peaceful intentions, as they so high-soundingly
and unctuously babbled; in other words, without ever having to take up arms.
No: if we chose this road, England would some day inevitably become our
enemy. It was more than senseless-but quite in keeping with our own innocence-to
wax indignant over the fact that England should one day take the liberty
to oppose our peaceful activity with the brutality of a violent egoist.It is true that we, I am sorry to say, would never have done
such a thing.If a European territorial policy was only possible against Russia
in alliance with England, conversely, a policy of colonies and world trade
was conceivable only against England and with Russia. But then we had dauntlessly
to draw the consequences- and, above all, abandon Austria in all haste.Viewed from all angles, this alliance with Austria was real
madness by the turn of the century.But we did not think of concluding an alliance with Russia against
England, any more than with England against Russia, for in both cases the
end would have been war, and to prevent this we decided in favor of a policy
of commerce and industry. In the 'peaceful economic ' conquest of the world
we possessed a recipe which was expected to break the neck of the former
policy of violence once and for all.l Occasionally, perhaps, we were not
quite sure of ourselves, particularly when from time to time incomprehensible
threats came over from England; therefore, we decided to build a fleet,
though not to attack and destroy England, but for the 'defense' of our old
friend 'world peace' and 'peaceful ' conquest of the world. Consequently,
it was kept on a somewhat more modest scale in all respects, not only in
number but also in the tonnage of the individual ships as well as in armament,
so as in the final analysis to let our 'peaceful' intentions shine through
after all.The talk about the 'peaceful economic' conquest of the world
was possibly the greatest nonsense which has ever been exalted to be a guiding
principle of state policy. What made this nonsense even worse was that its
proponents did not hesitate to call upon England as a crown witness for
the possibility of such an achievement. The crimes of our academic doctrine
and conception of history in this connection can scarcely be made good and
are only a striking proof of how many people there are who 'learn' history
without understanding or even comprehending it. England, in particular,
should have been recognized as the striking refutation of this theory; for
no people has ever with greater brutality better prepared its economic conquests
with the sword, and later ruthlessly defended theme than the English nation.
Is it not positively the distinguishing feature of British statesmanship
to draw economic acquisitions from political strength, and at once to recast
every gain in economic strength into political power? And what an error
to believe that England is personally too much of a coward to stake her
own blood for her economic policy! The fact that the English people possessed
no 'people's army' in no way proved the contrary; for what matters is not
the momentary military form of the fighting forces, but rather the will
and determination to risk those which do exist. England has always possessed
whatever armament she happened to need. She always fought with the weapons
which success demanded. She fought with mercenaries as long as mercenaries
sufficed; but she reached down into the precious blood of the whole nation
when only such a sacrifice could bring victory; but the determination for
victory, the tenacity and ruthless pursuit of this struggle, remained unchanged.In Germany, however, the school, the press, and comic magazines
cultivated a conception of the Englishman's character, and almost more so
of his empire, which inevitably led to one of the most insidious delusions;
for gradually everyone was infected by this nonsense, and the consequence
was an underestimation for which we would have to pay most bitterly. This
falsification went so deep that people became convinced that in the Englishman
they faced a business man as shrewd as personally he was unbelievably cowardly.
The fact that a world empire the size of the British could not be put together
by mere subterfuge and swindling was unfortunately something that never
even occurred to our exalted professors of academic science. The few who
raised a voice of warning were ignored or killed by silence. I remember
well my comrades' looks of astonishment when we faced the Tommies in person
in Flanders. After the very first days of battle the conviction dawned on
each and every one of them that these Scotsmen did not exactly jibe with
the pictures they had seen fit to give us in the comic magazines and press
dispatches.It was then that I began my first reflections about the importance
of the form of propaganda.
This falsification, however, did have one good side for those who spread
it: by this example, even though it was incorrect, they were able to demonstrate
the correctness of the economic conquest of the world. If the Englishman
had succeeded, we too were bound to succeed, and our definitely greater
honesty, the absence in us of that specifically English 'perfidy,' was regarded
as a very special plus. For it was hoped that this would enable us to win
the affection, particularly of the smaller nations, and the confidence of
the large ones the more easily.It did not occur to us that our honesty was a profound horror
to the others, if for no other reason because we ourselves believed all
these things seriously while the rest of the world regarded such behavior
as the expression of a special slyness and disingenuousness, until, to their
great, infinite amazement, the revolution gave them a deeper insight into
the boundless stupidity of our honest convictions.However, the absurdity of this 'economic conquest' at once made
the absurdity of the Triple Alliance clear and comprehensible. For with
what other state could we ally ourselves? In alliance with Austria, to be
sure, we could not undertake any military conquest, even in Europe alone.
Precisely therein consisted the inner weakness of the alliance from the
very first day. A Bismarck could permit himself this makeshift, but not
by a long shot every bungling successor, least of all at a time when certain
essential premises of Bismarck's alliance had long ceased to exist; for
Bismarck still believed that in Austria he had to do with a German state.
But with the gradual introduction of universal suffrage, this country had
sunk to the status of an unGerman hodgepodge with a parliamentary government.Also from the standpoint of racial policy, the alliance with
Austria was simply ruinous. It meant tolerating the growth of a new Slavic
power on the borders of the Reich, a power which sooner or later would have
to take an entirely different attitude toward Germany than, for example,
Russia. And from year to year the alliance itself was bound to grow inwardly
hollower and weaker in proportion as the sole supporters of this idea in
the monarchy lost influence and were shoved out of the most decisive positions.By the turn of the century the alliance with Austria had entered
the very same stage as Austria's pact with Italy.Here again there were only two possibilities: either we were
in a pact with the Habsburg monarchy or we had to lodge protest against
the repression of Germanism. But once a power embarks on this kind of undertaking,
it usually ends in open struggle.Even psychologically the value of the Triple Alliance was small,
since the stability of an alliance increases in proportion as the individual
contracting parties can hope to achieve definite and tangible expansive
aims. And, conversely, it will be the weaker the more it limits itself to
the preservation of an existing condition. Here, as everywhere else, strength
lies not in defense but in attack.Even then this was recognized in various quarters, unfortunately
not by the so-called 'authorities.' Particularly Ludendorff, then a colonel
and officer in the great general staff, pointed to these weaknesses in a
memorial written in 1912. Of course, none of the 'statesmen' attached any
value or significance to the matter; for clear common sense is expected
to manifest itself expediently only in common mortals, but may on principle
remain absent where 'diplomats' are concenned.For Germany it was sheer good fortune that in 1914 the war broke
out indirectly through Austria, so that the Habsburgs were forced to take
part; for if it had happened the other way around Germany would have been
alone. Never would the Habsburg state have been able, let alone willing,
to take part in a confiict which would have arisen through Germany. What
we later so condemned in Italy would then have happened even earlier with
Austria: they would have remained 'neutral' in order at least to save the
state from a revolution at the very start. Austrian Slavdom would rather
have shattered the monarchy even in 1914 than permit aid to Germany.How great were the dangers and difficulties entailed by the
alliance with the Danubian monarchy, only very few realized a' that time.In the first place, Austria possessed too many enemies who were
planning to grab what they could from the rotten state to prevent a certain
hatred from arising in the course of time against Germany, in whom they
saw the cause of preventing the generally hoped and longed-for collapse
of the monarchy. They came to the conviction that Vienna could finally be
reached only by a detour through Berlin.In the second place, Germany thus lost her best and most hopeful
possibilities of alliance. They were replaced by an evermounting tension
with Russia and even Italy. For in Rome the general mood was just as pro-German
as it was antiAustrian, slumbering in the heart of the very last Italian
and often brightly flanng up.Now, since we had thrown ourselves into a policy of commerce
and industry, there was no longer the slightest ground for war against Russia
either. Only the enemies of both nations could still have an active interest
in it. And actually these were primarily the Jews and the Marxists, who,
with every means, incited and agitated for war between the two states.Thirdly and lastly, this alliance inevitably involved an infinite
peril for Germany, because a great power actually hostile to Bismarck's
Reich could at any time easily succeed in mobilizing a whole series of states
against Germany, since it was in a position to promise each of them enrichment
at the expense of our Austrian ally.The whole East of Europe could be stirred up against the Danubian
monarchy-particularly Russia and Italy. Never would the world coalition
which had been forming since the initiating efforts of King Edward have
come into existence if Austria as Germany's ally had not represented too
tempting a legacy. This alone made it possible to bring states with otherwise
so heterogeneous desires and aims into a single offensive front. Each one
could hope that in case of a general action against Germany it, too, would
achieve enrichment at Austria's expense. The danger was enormously increased
by the fact that Turkey seemed to be a silent partner in this unfortunate
alliance.International Jewish world finance needed these lures to enable
it to carry out its long-desired plan for destroying the Germany which thus
far did not submit to its widespread superst3te control of finance and economics.
Only in this way could they forge a coalition made strong and courageous
by the sheer numbers of the gigantic armies now on the march and prepared
to attack the horny Siegfried at last.The alliance with the Habsburg monarchy, which even in Austria
had filled me with dissatisfaction, now became the source of long inner
trials which in the time to come reinforced me even more in the opinion
I had already conceived.Even then, among those few people whom I frequented I made no
secret of my conviction that our catastrophic alliance with a state on the
brink of ruin would also lead to a fatal collapse of Germany unless we knew
enough to release ourselves from it on time. This conviction of mine was
firm as a rock, and I did not falter ill it for one moment when at last
the storm of the World War seemed to have excluded all reasonable thought
and a frenzy of enthusiasm had seized even those quarters for which there
should have been only the coldest consideration of reality. And while I
myself was at the front, I put forwards whenever these problems were discussed,
my opinion that the alliance had to be broken off, the quicker the better
for the German nation, and that the sacrifice of the Habsburg monarchy would
be no sacrifice at all to make if Germany thereby could achieve a restriction
of her adversaries; for it was not for the preservation of a debauched dynasty
that the millions had donned the steel helmet, but for the salvation of
the German nation.On a few occasions before the War it seemed as though, in one
camp at least, a gentle doubt was arising as to the correctness of the alliance
policy that had been chosen. German conservative circles began from time
to time to warn against excessive confidence, but, like everything else
that was sensible, this was thrown to the winds. They were convinced that
they were on the path to a world ' conquest,' whose success would be tremendous
and which would entail practically no sacrifices.There was nothing for those not in authority to do but to watch
in silence why and how the ' authorities' marched straight to destruction,
drawing the dear people behind them like the Pied Piper of Hamelin.The deeper cause that made it possible to represent the absurdity
of an ' economic conquest ' as a practical political method, and the preservation
of 'world peace' as a political goal for a whole people, and even to make
these things intelligible, lay in the general sickening of our whole political
thinking.With the victorious march of German technology and industry,
the rising successes of German commerce, the realization was increasingly
lost that all this was only possible on the basis of a strong state. On
the contrary, many circles went so far as to put forward the conviction
that the state owed its very existence to these phenomena, that the state
itself Drimarilv represented an economic institution, that it could be governed
according to economic requirements, and that its very existence depended
on economics, a state of affairs which was regarded and glorified as by
far the healthiest and most natural.But the state has nothing at all to do with any definite economic
conception or development.It is not a collection of economic contracting parties in a
definite delimited living space for the fulfillment of economic tasks, but
the organization of a community of physically and psychologically similar
living beings for the better facilitation of the maintenance of their species
and the achievement of the aim which has been allotted to this species by
Providence. This and nothing else is the aim and meaning of a state. Economics
is only one of the many instruments required for the achievement of this
aim. It is never the cause or the aim of a state unless this state is based
on a false, because unnatural, foundation to begin with. Only in this way
can it be explained that the state as such does not necessarily presuppose
territorial limitation. This will be necessary only among the peoples who
want to secure the maintenance of their national comrades by their own resources;
in other words, are prepared to fight the struggle for existence by their
own labor. Peoples who can sneak their way into the rest of mankind like
drones, to make other men work for them under all sorts of pretexts, can
form states even without any definitely delimited living space of their
own. This applies first and foremost to a people under whose parasitism
the whole of honest humanity is suffering, today more than ever: the Jews.The Jewish state was never spatially limited in itself, but
universally unlimited as to space, though restricted in the sense of embracing
but one race. Consequently, this people has always formed a state within
states. It is one of the most ingenious tricks that was ever devised, to
make this state sail under the fiag of 'religion,' thus assuring it of the
tolerance which the Aryan is always ready to accord a religious creed. For
actually the Mosaic religion is nothing other than a doctrine for the preservation
of the Jewish race. It therefore embraces almost all sociological, political,
and economic fields of knowledge which can have any bearing on this function.The urge to preserve the species is the first cause for the
formation of human communities; thus the state is a national organism and
not an economic organization. A difference which is just as large as it
is incomprehensible, particularly to our so-called ' statesmen ' of today.
That is why they think they can build up the state through economics while
in reality it results and always will result solely from the action of those
qualities which lie in line with the will to preserve the species and race.
And these are always heroic virtues and never the egoism of shopkeepers,
since the preservation of the existence of a species presupposes a spirit
of sacrifice in the individual. The sense of the poet's words, 'If you will
not stake your life, you will win no life,' is that the sacrifice of personal
existence is necessary to secure the preservation of the species. Thus,
the most sensible prerequisite for the formation and preservation of a state
is the presence of a certain feeling of cohesion based on similarity of
nature and species, and a willingness to stake everything on it with all
possible means, something which in peoples with soil of their own will create
heroic virtues, but in parasites will create lying hypocrisy and malignant
cruelty, or else these qualities must already be present as the necessary
and demonstrable basis for their existence as a state so different in form.
The formation of a state, originally at least, will occur through the exercise
of these qualities, and in the subsequent struggle for self-preservation
those nations will be defeated- that is, will fall a prey to subjugation
and thus sooner or later die out which in the mutual struggle possess the
smallest share of heroic virtues, or are not equal to the lies and trickery
of the hostile parasite. But in this case, too, this must almost always
be attributed less to a lack of astuteness than to a lack of determination
and courage, which only tries to conceal itself beneath a cloak of humane
convictions.How little the state-forming and state-preserving qualities
are connected with economics is most clearly shown by the fact that the
inner strength of a state only in the rarest cases coincides with so-called
economic prosperity, but that the latter, in innumerable cases, seems to
indicate the state's approaching decline. If the formation of human societies
were primarily attributable to economic forces or even impulses, the highest
economic development would have to mean the greatest strength of the state
and not the opposite.Belief in the state-forming and state-preserving power of economics
seems especially incomprehensible when it obtains in a country which in
all things clearly and penetratingly shows the historic reverse. Prussia,
in particular, demonstrates with marvelous sharpness that not material qualities
but ideal virtues alone make possible the formation of a state. Only under
their protection can economic life flourish, until with the collapse of
the pure state-forming faculties the economy collapses too; a process which
we can observe in so terrible and tragic a form right now. The material
interests of man can always thrive best as long as they remain in the shadow
of heroic virtues; but as soon as they attempt to enter the primary sphere
of existence, they destroy the basis for their own existence.
Always when in Germany there was an upsurge of political power, the economic
conditions began to improve; but always when economics became the sole content
of our people's life, stifling the ideal virtues, the state collapsed and
in a short time drew economic life along with it.If, however, we consider the question, what, in reality, are
the state-forming or even state-preserving forces, we can sum them up under
one single head: the ability and will of the individual to sacrifice himself
for the totality. That these virtues have nothing at all to do with economics
can be seen from the simple realization that man never sacrifices himself
for the latter, or, in other words: a man does not die for business, but
only for ideals. Nothing proved the Englishman's superior psychological
knowledge of the popular soul better than the motivation which he gave to
his struggle. While we fought for bread, England fought for 'freedom'; and
not even for her own, no, for that of the small nations. In our country
we laughed at this effrontery, or were enraged at it, and thus only demonstrated
how emptyheaded and stupid the so-called statesmen of Germany had becorne
even before the War. We no longer had the slightest idea concerning the
essence of the force which can lead men to their death of their own free
will and decision.In 1914 as long as the German people thought they were fighting
for ideals, they stood firm; but as soon as they were told to fight for
their daily bread, they preferred to give up the game.And our brilliant 'statesmen' were astonished at this change
in attitude. It never became clear to them that from the moment when a man
begins to fight for an economic interest, he avoids death as much as possible,
since death wo lid forever deprive him of his reward for fighting. Anxiety
for the rescue of her own child makes a heroine of even the feeblest mother,
and only the struggle for the preservation of the species and the hearth,
or the state that protects it, has at all times driven men against the spears
of their enemies.The following theorem may be established as an eternally valid
truth:Never yet has a state been founded by peaceful economic means,
but always and exclusively by the instincts of preservation of the species
regardless whether these are found in the province of heroic virtue or of
cunning craftiness; the one results in Aryan states based on work and culture,
the other in Jewish colonies of parasites. As soon as economics as such
begins to choke out these Instincts in a people or in a state, it becomes
the seductive cause of subjugation and oppression.The belief of pre-war days that the world could be peacefully
opened up to, let alone conquered for, the German people by a commercial
and colonial policy was a classic sign of the loss of real state-forming
and state-preserving virtues and of all the insight, will power, and active
determination which follow from them; the penalty for this, inevitable as
the law of nature, was the World War with its consequences.For those who do not look more deeply into the matter, this
attitude of the German nation-for it was really as good as general-could
only represent an insoluble riddle: for was not Germany above all other
countries a marvelous example of an empire which had risen from foundations
of pure political power? Prussia, the germ-cell of the Empire, came into
being through resplendent heroism and not through financial operations or
commercial deals, and the Reich itself in turn was only the glorious reward
of aggressive political leadership and the death defying courage of its
soldiers. How could this very German people have succumbed to such a sickening
of its political instinct? For here we face, not an isolated phenomenon,
but forces of decay which in truly terrifying number soon began to flare
up like will-o'-the-wisps, brushing up and down the body politic, or eating
like poisonous abscesses into the nation, now here and now there. It seemed
as though a continuous stream of poison was being driven into the outermost
blood-vessels of this once heroic body by a mysterious power, and was inducing
progressively greater paralysis of sound reason and the simple instinct
of selfpreservation .As innumerable times I passed in review all these questions,
arising through my position on the German alliance policy and the economic
policy of the Reich in the years 1912 to 1914-the only remaining solution
to the riddle became to an ever-increasing degree that power which, from
an entirely different viewpoint, I had come to know earlier in Vienna: the
Marxist doctrine and philosophy, and their organizational results.For the second time I dug into this doctrine of destruction-
this time no longer led by the impressions and effects of my daily associations,
but directed by the observation of general processes of political life.
I again immersed myself in the theoretical literature of this new world,
attempting to achieve clarity concerning its possible effects, and then
compared it with the actual phenomena and events it brings about in political,
cultural, and economic life.Now for the first time I turned my attention to the attempts
to master this world plague.I studied Bismarck's Socialist legislation 1 in its intention
struggle, and success. Gradually I obtained a positively granite foundation
for my own conviction, so that since that time I have never been forced
to undertake a shift in my own inner view on this question. Likewise the
relation of Marxism to the Jews was submitted to further thorough examination.Though previously in Vienna, Germany above all had seemed to
me an unshakable colossus, now anxious misgivings sometimes entered my mind.
In silent solitude and in the small circles of my acquaintance, I was filled
with wrath at German foreign policy and likewise with what seemed to me
the incredibly frivolous way in which the most important problem then existing
for Germany, Marxism, was treated. It was really beyond me how people could
rush so blindly into a danger whose effects, pursuant to the Marxists' own
intention, were bound some day to be monstrous. Even then, among my acquaintance,
just as today on a large scale, I warned against the phrase with which all
wretched cowards comfort themselves: 'Nothing can happen to us!' This pestilential
attitude had once been the downfall of a gigantic empire. Could anyone believe
that Germany alone was not subject to exactly the same laws as all other
human organisms?In the years 1913 and 1914, I, for the first time in various
circles which today in part faithfully support the National Socialist movement,
expressed the conviction that the question of the future of the German nation
was the question of destroying Marxism.In the catastrophic German alliance policy I saw only one of
the consequences called forth by the disruptive work of this doctrine; for
the terrible part of it was that this poison almost invisibly destroyed
all the foundations of a healthy conception of economy and state, and that
often those affected by it did not themselves realize to what an extent
their activities and desires emanated from this philosophy srhich they otherwise
sharply ejected.The internal decline of the German nation had long since begun,
yet, as so often in life, people had not achieved clarity concerning the
force that was destroying their existence. Sometimes they tinkered around
with the disease, but confused the forms of the phenomenon with the virus
that had caused it. Since they did not know or want to know the cause, the
struggle against Malsisrs was no better than bungling quackery.


As A YOUNG SCAMP in my wild years, nothing had so grieved me
as having been born at a time which obviously erected its Halls of Fame
only to shopkeepers and government officials. The waves of historic events
seemed to have grown so smooth that the future really seemed to belong only
to the 'peaceful contest of nations'; in other words, a cozy mutual swindling
match with the exclusion of violent methods of defense. The various nations
began to be more and more like private citizens who cut the ground from
under one another's feet, stealing each other's customers and orders, trying
in every way to get ahead of one another, and staging this whole act amid
a hue and cry as loud as it is harmless. This development seemed not only
to endure but was expected in time (as was universally recommended) to remodel
the whole world into one big department store in whose vestibules the busts
of the shrewdest profiteers and the most lamblike administrative officials
would be garnered for all eternity. The English could supply the merchants,
the Germans the administrative officials, and the Jews no doubt would have
to sacrifice themselves to being the owners, since by their own admission
they never make any money, but always 'pay,' and, besides, speak the most
languages.Why couldn't I have been born a hundred years earlier? Say at
the time of the Wars of Liberation when a man, even without a 'business,'
was really worth something?!Thus I had often indulged in angry thoughts concerning my earthly
pilgrimage, which, as it seemed to me, had begun too late, and regarded
the period 'of law and order' ahead of me as a mean and undeserved trick
of Fate. Even as a boy I was no 'pacifist,' and all attempts to educate
me in this direction came to nothing.The Boer War was like summer lightning to me.Every day I waited impatiently for the newspapers and devoured
dispatches and news reports, happy at the privilege of witnessing this heroic
struggle even at a distance.The Russo-Japanese War found me considerably more mature, but
also more attentive. More for national reasons I had already taken sides,
and in our little discussions at once sided with the Japanese. In a defeat
of the Russians I saw the defeat of Austrian Slavdom.Since then many years have passed, and what as a boy had seemed
to me a lingering disease, I now felt to be the quiet before the storm.
As early as my Vienna period, the Balkans were immersed in that livid sultriness
which customarily announces the hurricane, and from time to time a beam
of brighter light flared up, only to vanish again in the spectral darkness.
But then came the Balkan War and with it the first gust of wind swept across
a Europe grown nervous. The time which now followed lay on the chests of
men like a heavy nightmare, sultry as feverish tropic heat, so that due
to constant anxiety the sense of approaching catastrophe turned at last
to longing: let Heaven at last give free rein to the fate which could no
longer be thwarted. And then the first mighty lightning flash struck the
earth; the storm was unleashed and with the thunder of Heaven there mingled
the roar of the World War batteries.When the news of the murder of Archduke Francis Ferdinand arrived
in Munich (I happened to be sitting at home and heard of it only- vaguely),
I was at first seized with worry that the bullets may have been shot from
the pistols of German students, who, out of indignation at the heir apparent's
continuous work of Slavization, wanted to free the German people from this
internal enemy. What the consequence of this would have been was easy to
imagine: a new wave of persecutions which would now have been 'justified'
and 'explained' in the eyes of the whole world. But when, soon afterward,
I heard the names of the supposed assassins, and moreover read that they
had been identified as Serbs, a light shudder began to run through me at
this vengeance of inscrutable Destiny.The greatest friend of the Slavs had fallen beneath the bullets
of Slavic fanatics.Anyone with constant occasion in the last years to observe the
relation of Austria to Serbia could not for a moment be in doubt that a
stone had been set rolling whose course could no longer be arrested.Those who today shower the Viennese government with reproaches
on the form and content of the ultimatum it issued, do it an injustice.
No other power in the world could have acted differently in the same situation
and the same position. At her southeastern border Austria possessed an inexorable
and mortal enemy who at shorter and shorter intervals kept challenging the
monarchy and would never have left off until the moment favorable for the
shattering of the Empire had arrived. There was reason to fear that this
would occur at the latest with the death of the old Emperor; by then perhaps
the old monarchy would no longer be in a position to offer any serious resistance.
In the last few years the state had been so bound up with the person of
Francis Joseph that the death of this old embodiment of the Empire was felt
by the broad masses to be tantamount to the death of the Empire itself.
Indeed, it was one of the craftiest artifices, particularly of the Slavic
policy, to create the appearance that the Austrian state no longer owed
its existence to anything but the miraculous and unique skill of this monarch;
this flattery was all the more welcome in the Hofburg, since it corresponded
not at all to the real merits of the Emperor. The thorn hidden in these
paeans of praise remained undiscovered The rulers did not see, or perhaps
no longer wanted to see, that the more the monarchy depended on the outstanding
statecraft, as they put it, of this 'wisest monarch' of all times, the more
catastrophic the situation was bound to become if one day Fate were to knock
at his door, too, demanding its tribute.Was old Austria even conceivable without the Emperor?!Wouldn't the tragedy which had once stricken Maria Theresa have
been repeated?No, it is really doing the Vienna circles an injustice to reproach
them with rushing into a war which might otherwise have been avoided. It
no longer could be avoided, but at most could have been postponed for one
or two years. But this was the curse of German as well as Austrian diplomacy,
that it had always striven to postpone the inevitable reckoning, until at
length it was forced to strike at the most unfavorable hour. We can be convinced
that a further attempt to save peace would have brought war at an even more
unfavorable time.No, those who did not want this war had to have the courage
to face the consequences, which could have consisted only in the sacrifice
of Austria. Even then the war would have come, but no longer as a struggle
of all against ourselves, but in the form of a partition of the Habsburg
monarchy. And then they had to make up their minds to join in, or to look
on with empty hands and let Fate run its course.Those very people, however, who today are loudest in cursing
the beginning of the war and offer the sagest opinions were those who contributed
most fatally to steering us into it.For decades the Social Democrats had carried on the most scoundrelly
war agitation against Russia, and the Center for religious reasons had been
most active in making the Austrian state the hinge and pivot of Germany
policy. Now we had to suffer the consequences of this lunacy. What came
had to come, and could no longer under any circumstances be avoided. The
guilt of the German government was that in order to preserve peace it always
missed the favorable hours for striking, became entangled in the alliance
for the preservation of world peace, and thus finally became the victim
of a world coalition which countered the idea of preserving world peace
with nothing less than determination for world war.If the Vienna government had given the ultimatum another milder
form, this would have changed nothing in the situation except at most one
thing, that this government would itself have been swept away by the indignation
of the people. For in the eyes of the broad masses the tone of the ultimatum
was far too gentle and by no means too brutal, let alone too far-reaching
Anyone who today attempts to argue this away is either a forgetful blockhead
or a perfectly conscious swindler and liarThe struggle of the year 1914 was not forced on the masses-
no, by the living God-it was desired by the whole people.People wanted at length to put an end to the general uncertainty.
Only thus can it be understood that more than two million German men and
boys thronged to the colors for this hardest of all struggles, prepared
to defend the flag with the last drop of their blood.To me those hours seemed like a release from the painful
feelings of my youth. Even today I am not ashamed to say that, overpowered
by stormy enthusiasm, I fell down on my knees and thanked Heaven from an
overflowing heart for granting me the good fortune of being permitted to
live at this time.A fight for freedom had begun, mightier than the earth had ever
seen; for once Destiny had begun its course, the conviction dawned on even
the broad masses that this time not the fate of Serbia or Austria was involved,
but whether the German nation was to be or not to be.For the last time in many years the people had a prophetic vision
of its own future. Thus, right at the beginning of the gigantic struggle
the necessary grave undertone entered into the ecstasy- of an overflowing
enthusiasm; for this knowledge alone made the national uprising more than
a mere blaze of straw The earnestness was only too necessary; for in those
days people in general had not the faintest conception of the possible length
and duration of the struggle that was now beginning. They dreamed of being
home again that winter to continue and renew their peaceful labors.What a man wants is what he hopes and believes. The overwhelming
majority of the nation had long been weary of the eternally uncertain state
of affairs; thus it was only too understandable that they no longer believed
in a peaceful conclusion of the Austro-Serbian convict, but hoped for the
final settlement.I, too, was one of these millions.Hardly had the news of the assassination become known in Munich
than at once two thoughts quivered through my brain: first, that at last
war would be inevitable; and, furthermore, that now the Habsburg state would
be compelled to keep its pact; for what I had always most feared was the
possibility that Germany herself would some day, perhaps in consequence
of this very alliance, find herself in a conflict not directly caused by
Austria, so that the Austrian state for reasons of domestic policy would
not muster the force of decision to stand behind her ally. The Slavic majority
of the Empire would at once have begun to sabotage any such intention on
the part of the state, and would always have preferred to smash the entire
state to smithereens than grant its ally the help it demanded. This danger
was now eliminated. The old state had to fight whether it wanted to or not.My own position on the conflict was likewise very simple and
clear; for me it was not that Austria was fighting for some Serbian satisfaction,
but that Germany was fighting for her existence, the German nation for life
or death, freedom and future. The time had come for Bismarck's work to fight;
what the fathers had once won in the battles from Weissenburg to Sedan and
Paris, young Germany now had to earn once more. If the struggle were carried
through to victory, our nation would enter the circle of great nations from
the standpoint of external power, and only then could the German Reich maintain
itself as a mighty haven of peace without having, for the sake of peace,
to cut down on the daily bread of her children.As a boy and young man I had so often felt the desire to prove
at least once by deeds that for me national enthusiasm was no empty whim.
It often seemed to me almost a sin to shout hurrah perhaps without having
the inner right to do so; for who had the right to use this word without
having proved it in the place where all playing is at an end and the inexorable
hand of the Goddess of Destiny begins to weigh peoples and men according
to the truth and steadfastness of their convictions? Thus my heart, like
that of a million others, overflowed with proud joy that at last I would
be able to redeem myself from this paralyzing feeling. I had so often sung
'Deutschland uber Aloes' and shouted Neil ' at the top of my lungs, that
it seemed to me almost a belated act of grace to be allowed to stand as
a witness in the divine court of the eternal judge and proclaim the sincerity
of this conviction. For from the first hour r was convinced that in case
of a war- which seemed to me inevitable-in one way or another I would at
once leave my books. Likewise I knew that my place would then be where my
inner voice directed me.I had left Austria primarily for political reasons; what was
more natural than that, now the struggle had begun, I should really begin
to take account of this conviction. I did not want to fight for the Habsburg
state, but was ready at any time to die for my people and for the Reich
which embodied itOn the third of August, I submitted a personal petition to His
Majesty, lying Ludwig III, with a request for permission to enter a Bavarian
regiment. The cabinet office certainly had plenty to do in those days; so
much the greater was my joy to receive an answer to my request the very
next day. With trembling hands I opened the document; my request had been
approved and I was summoned to report to a Bavarian regiment. My joy and
gratitude knew no bounds. A few days later I was wearing the tunic which
I was not to doff until nearly six years later.For me, as for every German, there now began the greatest and
most unforgettable time of my earthly existence. Compared to the events
of this gigantic struggle, everything past receded to shallow nothingness.
Precisely in these days, with the tenth anniversary of the mighty event
approaching, I think back with proud sadness on those first weeks of our
people's heroic struggle, in which Fate graciously allowed me to take part.As though it were yesterday, image after image passes before
my eyes. I see myself donning the uniform in the circle of my dear comrades,
turning out for the first time, drilling, etc., until the day came for us
to march off.A single worry tormented me at that time, me, as so many others:
would we not reach the front too late? Time and time again this alone banished
all my calm. Thus, in every cause for rejoicing at a new, heroic victory,
a slight drop of bitterness was hidden, for every new victory seemed to
increase the danger of our coming too late.At last the day came when we left Munich to begin the fulfillment
of our duty. For the first time I saw the Rhine as we rode westward along
its quiet waters to defend it, the German stream of streams, from the greed
of the old enemy. When through the tender veil of the early morning mist
the Niederwald Monument gleamed down upon us in the gentle first rays of
the sun, the old Watch on the Rhine roared out of the endless transport
train into the morning sky, and I felt as though my heart would burst.And then came a damp, cold night in Flanders, through which
we marched in silence, and when the day began to emerge from the mists,
suddenly an iron greeting came whizzing at us over our heads, and with a
sharp report sent the little pellets flying between our ranks, ripping up
the wet ground; but even before the little cloud had passed, from two hundred
throats the first hurrah rose to meet the first messenger of death. Then
a crackling and a roaring, a singing and a howling began, and with feverish
eyes each one of us was drawn forward, faster and faster, until suddenly
past turnip fields and hedges the fight began, the fight of man against
man. And from the distance the strains of a song reached our ears, coming
closer and closer, leaping from company to company, and just as Death plunged
a busy hand into our ranks, the song reached us too and we passed it along:
'Deutschland, Deutschland uber Alles, uber Alles in der Welt!'Four days later we came back. Even our step had changed. Seventeen-year-old
boys now looked like men.The volunteers of the List Regiment may not have learned to
fight properly, but they knew how to die like old soldiersThis was the beginning.Thus it went on year after year; but the romance of battle had
been replaced by horror. The enthusiasm gradually cooled and the exuberant
joy was stifled by mortal fear. The time came when every man had to struggle
between the instinct of self-preservation and the admonitions of duty. I,
too, was not spared by this struggle. Always when Death was on the hunt,
a vague something tried to revolt, strove to represent itself to the weak
body as reason, yet it was only cowardice, which in such disguises tried
to ensnare the individual. A grave tugging and warning set in, and often
it was only the last remnant of conscience which decided the issue. Yet
the more this voice admonished one to caution, the louder and more insistent
its lures, the sharper resistance grew until at last, after a long inner
struggle, consciousness of duty emerged victorious. By the winter of 1915-16
this struggle had for me been decided. At last my will was undisputed master.
If in the first days I went over the top with rejoicing and laughter, I
was now calm and determined. And this was enduring. Now Fate could bring
on the ultimate tests without my nerves shattering or my reason failing.The young volunteer had become an old soldier.And this transformation had occurred in the whole army. It had
issued old and hard from the eternal battles, and as for those who could
not stand up under the storm-well, they were broken.Now was the time to judge this army. Now, after two or three
years, during which it was hurled from one battle into another, forever
fighting against superiority in numbers and weapons, suffering hunger and
bearing privations, now was the time to test the quality of this unique
army.Thousands of years may pass, but never will it be possible to
speak of heroism without mentioning the German army and the World War. Then
from the veil of the past the iron front of the gray steel helmet will emerge,
unwavering and unflinching, an immortal monument. As long as there are Germans
alive, they will remember that these men were sons of their nation.I was a soldier then, and I didn't want to talk about politics.
And really it was not the time for it. Even today I harbor the conviction
that the humblest wagon-driver performed more valuable services for the
fatherland than the foremost among, let us say, 'parliamentarians.' I had
never hated these bigmouths more than now when every red-blooded man with
something to say yelled it into the enemy's face or appropriately left his
tongue at home and silently did his duty somewhere. Yes, in those days I
hated all those politicians. And if it had been up to me, a parliamentary
pick-and-shovel battalion would have been formed at once; then they could
have chewed the fat to their hearts' content without annoying, let alone
harming, honest, decent people.Thus, at that time I wanted to hear nothing of politics, but
I could not help taking a position on certain manifestations which after
all did affect the whole nations and particularly concerned us soldiers.There were two things which then profoundly angered me and which
I regarded as harmful.After the very first news of victories, a certain section of
the press, slowly, and in a way which at first was perhaps unrecognizable
to many, began to pour a few drops of wormwood into the general enthusiasm.
This was done beneath the mask of a certain benevolence and well-meaning,
even of a certain solicitude. They had misgivings about an excess of exuberance
in the celebration of the victories. They feared that in this form it was
unworthy of so great a nation and hence inappropriate. The bravery and heroic
courage of the German soldier were something self-evident, they said, and
people should not be carried away too much by thoughtless outbursts of joy,
if only for the sake of foreign countries to whom a silent and dignified
form of joy appealed more than unbridled exultation, etc. Finally, we Germans
even now should not forget that the war was none of our intention and therefore
we should not be ashamed to confess in an open and manly fashion that at
any time we would contribute our part to a reconciliation of mankind. For
that reason it would not be prudent to besmirch the purity of our army's
deeds by too much shouting, since the rest of the world would have little
understanding for such behavior. The world admired nothing more than the
modesty with which a true hero silently and calmly forgets his deeds, for
this was the gist of the whole argument.Instead of taking one of these creatures by his long ears, tying
him to a long pole and pulling him up on a long cord, thus making it impossible
for the cheering nation to insult the aesthetic sentiment of this knight
of the inkpot, the authorities actually began to issue remonstrances against
' unseemly ' rejoicing over victories.It didn't occur to them in the least that enthusiasm once scotched
cannot be reawakened at need. It is an intoxication and must be preserved
in this state. And how, without this power of enthusiasm, should a country
withstand a struggle which in all likelihood would make the most enormous
demands on the spiritual qualities of the nation?I knew the psyche of the broad masses too well not to be aware
that a high 'aesthetic' tone would not stir up the fire that was necessary
to keep the iron hot. In my eyes it was madness on the part of the authorities
to be doing nothing to intensify the glowing heat of passion; and when they
curtailed what passion was fortunately present, that was absolutely beyond
me.The second thing that angered me was the attitude which they
thought fit to take toward Marxism. In my eyes, this only proved that they
hadn't so much as the faintest idea concerning this pestilence. In all seriousness
they seemed to believe that, by the assurance that parties were no longer
recognized, they had brought Marxism to understanding and restraint.They failed to understand that here no party was involved, but
a doctrine that must lead to the destruction of all humanity, especially
since this cannot be learned in the Jewified universities and, besides,
so many, particularly among our higher officials, due to the idiotic conceit
that is cultivated in them, don't think it worth the trouble to pick up
a book and learn something which was not in their university curriculum.
The most gigantic upheaval passes these 'minds' by without leaving the slightest
trace, which is why state institutions for the most part lag behind private
ones. It is to them, by God, that the popular proverb best applies: 'What
the peasant doesn't know, he won't eat.' Here, too, a few exceptions only
confirm the rule.It was an unequaled absurdity to identify the German worker
with Marxism in the days of August, 1914. In those hours the German worker
had made himself free from the embrace of this venomous plague, for otherwise
he would never have been able to enter the struggle. The authorities, however,
were stupid enough to believe that Marxism had now become national; a flash
of genius which only shows that in these long years none of these official
guides of the state had even taken the trouble to study the essence of this
doctrine, for if they had, such an absurdity could scarcely have crept in.Marxism, whose goal is and remains the destruction of all non-Jewish
national states, was forced to look on in horror as, in the July days of
1914, the German working class it had ensnared, awakened and from hour to
hour began to enter the service of the fatherland with ever-increasing rapidity.
In a few days the whole mist and swindle of this infamous betrayal of the
people had scattered away, and suddenly the gang of Jewish leaders stood
there lonely and forsaken, as though not a trace remained of the nonsense
and madness which for sixty years they had been funneling into the masses.
It was a bad moment for the betrayers of the German working class, but as
soon as the leaders recognized the danger which menaced them, they rapidly
pulled the tarn-cap ' of lies over their ears, and insolently mimicked the
national awakening.But now the time had come to take steps against the whole treacherous
brotherhood of they Jewish poisoners of the people. Now was the time to
deal with them summarily without the slightest consideration for any screams
and complaints that might arise. In August, 1914, the whole Jewish jabber
about international solidarity had vanished at one stroke from the heads
of the German working class, and in its stead, only a few weeks later, American
shrapnel began to pour down the blessings of brotherhood on the helmets
of our march columns. It would have been the duty of a serious government,
now that the German worker had found his way back to his nation, to exterminate
mercilessly the agitators who were misleading the nation.If the best men were dying at the front, the least we could
do was to wipe out the vermin.
Instead of this, His Majesty the Raiser himself stretched out his hand to
the old criminals, thus sparing the treacherous murderers of the nation
and giving them a chance to retrieve themselves.So nova the viper could continue his work, more cautiously than
before, but all the more dangerously. While the honest ones were dreaming
of peace within their borders,l the perjuring criminals were organizing
the revolution.That such terrible half-measures should then be decided upon
made me more and more dissatisfied at heart; but at that time I would not
have thought it possible that the end of it all would be so frightful.What, then, should have been done? The leaders of the whole
movement should at once have been put behind bars, brought to trial, and
thus taken off the nation's neck. All the implements of military power should
have been ruthlessly used for the extermination of this pestilence. The
parties should have been dissolved, the Reichstag brought to its senses,
with bayonets if necessary, but, best of all, dissolved at once. Just as
the Republic today can dissolve parties, this method should have been used
at that time, with more reason. For the life and death of a whole nation
was at stake!One question came to the fore, however: can spiritual ideas
be exterminated by the sword? Can 'philosophies' be combated by the use
of brute force?Even at that time I pondered this question more than once: If
we ponder analogous cases, particularly on a religious basis, which can
be found in history, the following fundamental principle emerges:Conceptions and ideas, as well as movements with a definite
spiritual foundation, regardless whether the latter is false or true, can,
after a certain point in their development, only be broken with technical
instruments of power if these physical weapons are at the same time the
support of a new kindling thought, idea, or philosophy.         The application of force alone, without the impetus of a basic
spiritual idea as a starting point, can never lead to the destruction of
an idea and its dissemination, except in the form of a complete extermination
of even the very last exponent of the idea and the destruction of the last
tradition. This, however, usually means the disappearance of such a state
from the sphere of political importance, often for an indefinite time and
some-times forever; for experience shows that such a blood sacrifice strikes
the best part of the people, since every persecution which occurs without
a spiritual basis seems morally unjustified and whips up precisely the more
valuable parts of a people in protest, which results in an adoption of the
spiritual content of the unjustly persecuted movement. In many this occurs
simply through a feeling of opposition against the attempt to bludgeon down
an idea by brute force.As a result, the number of inward supporters grows in proportion
as the persecution increases. Consequently, the complete annihilation of
the new doctrine can be carried out only through a process of extermination
so great and constantly increasing that in the end all the truly valuable
blood is drawn out of the people or state in question. The consequence is
that, though a so-called 'inner' purge can now take place, it will only
be at the cost of total impotence. Such a method will always prove vain
in advance if the doctrine to be combated has overstepped a certain small
circle.Consequently, here, too, as in all growth, the first period
of childhood is most readily susceptible to the possibility of extermination,
while with the mounting years the power of resistance increases and only
with the weakness of approaching old age cedes again to new youth, though
in another form and for different reasons.Indeed, nearly all attempts to exterminate a doctrine and its
organizational expression, by force without spiritual foundation, are doomed
to failure, and not seldom end with the exact opposite of the desired result
for the following reason:The very first requirement for a mode of struggle with the weapons
of naked force is and remains persistence. In other words: only the continuous
and steady application of the methods for repressing a doctrine, etc., makes
it possible for a plan to succeed. But as soon as force wavers and alternates
with forbearance, not only will the doctrine to be repressed recover again
and again, but it will also be in a position to draw new benefit from every
persecution, since, after such a wave of pressure has ebbed away, indignation
over the suffering induced leads new supporters to the old doctrine, while
the old ones will cling to it with greater defiance and deeper hatred than
before, and even schismatic heretics, once the danger has subsided, will
attempt to return to their old viewpoint. Only in the steady and constant
application of force lies the very first prerequisite for success. This
persistence, however, can always and only arise from a definite spiritual
conviction. Any violence which does not spring from a firm, spiritual base,
will be wavering and uncertain. It lacks the stability which can only rest
in a fanatical outlook. It emanates from the momentary energy and brutal
determination of an individual, and is therefore subject to the change of
personalities and to their nature and strength.Added to this there is something else:Any philosophy, whether of a religious or political nature-
and sometimes the dividing line is hard to determine-fights less for the
negative destruction of the opposing ideology than for the positive promotion
of its own. Hence its struggle is less defensive than offensive. It therefore
has the advantage even in determining the goal, since this goal represents
the victory of its own idea, while, conversely, it is hard to determine
when the negative aim of the destruction of a hostile doctrine may be regarded
as achieved and assured. For this reason alone, the philosophy's offensive
will be more systematic and also more powerful than the defensive against
a philosophy, since here, too, as always, the attack and not the defense
makes the decision. The fight against a spiritual power with methods of
violence remains defensive, however, until the sword becomes the support,
the herald and disseminator, of a new spiritual doctrine.Thus, in summing up, we can establish the following:Any attempt to combat a philosophy with methods of violence
will fail in the end, unless the fight takes the form of attack for a new
spiritual attitude. Only in the struggle between two philosophies can the
weapon of brutal force, persistently and ruthlessly applied lead to a decision
for the side it supports.This remained the reason for the failure of the struggle against
Marxism.This was why Bismarck's Socialist legislation finally failed
and had to fail, in spite of everything. Lacking was the platform of a new
philosophy for whose rise the fight could have been waged. For only the
proverbial wisdom of high government officials will succeed in believing
that drivel about so-called 'state authority' or 'law and order' could form
a suitable basis for the spiritual impetus of a life-and-death struggle.Since a real spiritual basis for this struggle was lacking,
Bismarck had to entrust the execution of his Socialist legislation to the
judgment and desires of that institution which itself was a product of Marxist
thinking. By entrusting the fate of his war on the Marxists to the well-wishing
of bourgeois democracy, the Iron Chancellor set the wolf to mind the sheep.All this was only the necessary consequence of the absence of
a basic new anti-Marxist philosophy endowed with a stormy will to conquer.Hence the sole result of Bismarck's struggle was a grave disillusionment.Were conditions different during the World War or at its beginning?
Unfortunately not.The more I occupied myself with the idea of a necessary change
in the government's attitude toward Social Democracy as the momentary embodiment
of Marxism, the more I recognized the lack of a serviceable substitute for
this doctrine. What would be given the masses if, just supposing, Social
Democracy had been broken? There was not one movement in existence which
could have been expected to succeed in drawing into its sphere of influence
the great multitudes of workers grown more or less leaderless. It is senseless
and more than stupid to believe that the international fanatic who had left
the class party would now at once join a bourgeois party, in other words,
a new class organization. For, unpleasant as it may seem to various organizations,
it cannot be denied that bourgeois politicians largely take class division
quite for granted as long as it does not begin to work out to their political
disadvantage.The denial of this fact only proves the effrontery, and also
the stupidity, of the liars.Altogether, care should be taken not to regard the masses as
stupider than they are. In political matters feeling often decides more
correctly than reason. The opinion that the stupid international attitude
of the masses is sufficient proof of the unsoundness of the masses' sentiments
can be thoroughly confuted by the simple reminder that pacifist democracy
is no less insane, and that its exponents originate almost exclusively in
the bourgeois camp. As long as millions of the bourgeoisie still piously
worship their Jewish democratic press every morning, it very ill becomes
these gentlemen to make jokes about the stupidity of the 'comrade' who,
in the last analysis, only swallows down the same garbage, though in a different
form. In both cases the manufacturer is one and the same Jew.Good care should be taken not to deny things that just happen
to be true. The fact that the class question is by no means exclusively
a matter of ideal problems, as, particularly before the elections, some
people would like to pretend, cannot be denied. The class arrogance of a
large part of our people, and to an even greater extent, the underestimation
of the manual worker, are phenomena which do not exist only in the imagination
of the moonstruck.Quite aside from this, however, it shows the small capacity
for thought of our so-called 'intelligentsia' when, particularly in these
circles, it is not understood that a state of affairs which could not prevent
the growth of a plague, such as Marxism happens to be, will certainly not
be able to recover what has been lost.The 'bourgeois' parties, as they designate themselves, will
never be able to attach the 'proletarian' masses to their camp, for here
two worlds oppose each other, in part naturally and in part artificially
divided, whose mutual relation 1 can only be struggle. The younger will
be victorious-and this is Marxism.Indeed, a struggle against Social Democracy in the year 1914
was conceivable, but how long this condition would be maintained, in view
of the absence of any substitute, remained doubtful.Here there was a great gap.I was of this opinion long before the War, and for this reason
could not make up my mind to join one of the existing parties. In the course
of events of the World War, I was reinforced in this opinion by the obvious
impossibility of taking up a ruthless struggle against Social Democracy,
owing to this very lack of a movement which would have had to be more than
a 'parliamentary' party.With my closer comrades I often expressed myself openly on this
point.And now the first ideas came to me of later engaging in political
activity.Precisely this was what caused me often to assure the small
circle of my friends that after the War, I meant to be a speaker in addition
to my profession.I believe that I was very serious about this.


EVER since I have been scrutinizing political events, I have
taken a tremendous interest in propagandist activity. I saw that the Socialist-Marxist
organizations mastered and applied this instrument with astounding skill.
And I soon realized that the correct use of propaganda is a true art which
has remained practically unknown to the bourgeois parties. Only the Christian-Social
movement, especially in Lueger's time, achieved a certain virtuosity on
this instrument, to which it owed many of its successes.But it was not until the War that it became evident what immense
results could be obtained by a correct application of propaganda. Here again,
unfortunately, all our studying had to be done on the enemy side, for the
activity on our side was modest, to say the least. The total miscarriage
of the German 'enlightenment ' service stared every soldier in the face,
and this spurred me to take up the question of propaganda even more deeply
than before.There was often more than enough time for thinking, and the
enemy offered practical instruction which, to our sorrow, was only too good.For what we failed to do, the enemy did, with amazing skill
and really brilliant calculation. I, myself, learned enormously from this
enemy war propaganda. But time passed and left no trace in the minds of
all those who should have benefited; partly because they considered themselves
too clever to from the enemy, partly owing to lack of good will.Did we have anything you could call propaganda?I regret that I must answer in the negative. Everything that
actually was done in this field was so inadequate and wron
from the very start that it certainly did no good and sometimes did actual
harm.The form was inadequate, the substance was psychologically wrong:
a careful examination of German war propaganda ca: lead to no other diagnosis.There seems to have been no clarity on the very first question:
Is propaganda a means or an end?It is a means and must therefore be judged with regard to its
end. It must consequently take a form calculated to support the aim which
it serves. It is also obvious that its aim can vary in importance from the
standpoint of general need, and that the inner value of the propaganda will
vary accordingly. The aim for which we were fighting the War was the loftiest,
the most overpowering, that man can conceive: it was the freedom and independence
of our nation, the security of our future food supply, and-our national
honor; a thing which, despite all contrary opinions prevailing today, nevertheless
exists, or rather should exist, since peoples without honor have sooner
or later lost their freedom and independence, which in turn is only the
result of a higher justice, since generations of rabble without honor deserve
no freedom. Any man who wants to be a cowardly slave can have no honor)
or honor itself would soon fall into general contempt.The German nation was engaged in a struggle for a human existence,
and the purpose of war propaganda should have been to support this struggle;
its aim to help bring about victory.When the nations on this planet fight for existence-when the
question of destiny, 'to be or not to be,' cries out for a solution-then
all considerations of humanitarianism or aesthetics crumble into nothingness;
for all these concepts do not float about in the ether, they arise from
man's imagination and are bound up with man. When he departs from this world,
these concepts are again dissolved into nothingness, for Nature does not
know them. And even among mankind, they belong only to a few nations or
rather races, and this in proportion as they emanate from the feeling of
the nation or race in question. Humanitarianism and aesthetics would vanish
even from a world inhabited by man if this world were to lose the races
that have created and upheld these concepts.But all such concepts become secondary when a nation is fighting
for its existence; in fact, they become totally irrelevant to the forms
of the struggle as soon as a situation arises where they might paralyze
a struggling nation's power of selfpreservation. And that has always been
their only visible result.As for humanitarianism, Moltke said years ago that in war it
lies in the brevity of the operation, and that means that the most aggressive
fighting technique is the most humane.But when people try to approach these questions with drivel
about aesthetics, etc., really only one answer is possible: where the destiny
and existence of a people are at stake, all obligation toward beauty ceases.
The most unbeautiful thing there can be in human life is and remains the
yoke of slavery. Or do these Schwabing 2 decadents view the present lot
of the German people as 'aesthetic'? Certainly we don't have to discuss
these matters with the Jews, the most modern inventors of this cultural
perfume. Their whole existence is an embodied protest against the aesthetics
of the Lord's image.And since these criteria of humanitarianism and beauty must
be eliminated from the struggle, they are also inapplicable to propaganda.Propaganda in the War was a means to an end, and the end wvas
the struggle for the existence of the German people; consequently, propaganda
could only be considered in accordance with the principles that were valid
for this struggle. In this case the most cruel weapons were humane if they
brought about a quicker victory; and only those methods were beautiful which
helped the nation to safeguard the dignity of its freedom.This was the only possible attitude toward war propaganda in
a life-and-death struggle like ours.If the so-called responsible authorities had been clear on this
point, they would never have fallen into such uncertainty over the form
and application of this weapon: for even propaganda is no more than a weapon,
though a frightful one in the hand of an expert.The second really decisive question was this: To whom should
propaganda be addressed? To the scientifically trained intelligentsia or
to the less educated masses?It must be addressed always and exclusively to the masses.What the intelligentsia-or those who today unfortunately often
go by that name-what they need is not propaganda but scientific instruction.
The content of propaganda is not science any more than the object represented
in a poster is art. The art of the poster lies in the designer's ability
to attract the attention of the crowd by form and color. A poster advertising
an art exhibit must direct the attention of the public to the art being
exhibited; the better it succeeds in this, the greater is the art of the
poster itself. The poster should give the masses an idea of the significance
of the exhibition, it should not be a substitute for the art on display.
Anyone who wants to concern himself with the art itself must do more than
study the poster; and it will not be enough for him just to saunter through
the exhibition. We may expect him to examine and immerse himself in the
individual works, and thus little by little form a fair opinion.A similar situation prevails with what we today call propaganda.The function of propaganda does not lie in the scientific training
of the individual, but in calling the masses' attention to certain facts,
processes, necessities, etc., whose significance is thus for the first time
placed within their field of vision.The whole art consists in doing this so skillfully that everyone
will be convinced that the fact is real, the process necessary, the necessity
correct, etc. But since propaganda is not and cannot be the necessity in
itself, since its function, like the poster, consists in attracting the
attention of the crowd, and not in educating those who are already educated
or who are striving after education and knowledge, its effect for the most
part must be aimed at the emotions and only to a very limited degree at
the so-called intellect.All propaganda must be popular and its intellectual level must
be adjusted to the most limited intelligence among those it is addressed
to. Consequently, the greater the mass it is intended to reach, the lower
its purely intellectual level will have to be. But if, as in propaganda
for sticking out a war, the aim is to influence a whole people, we must
avoid excessive intellectual demands on our public, and too much caution
cannot be exerted in this direction.The more modest its intellectual ballast, the more exclusively
it takes into consideration the emotions of the masses, the more effective
it will be. And this is the best proof of the soundness or unsoundness of
a propaganda campaign, and not success in pleasing a few scholars or young
aesthetes.The art of propaganda lies in understanding the emotional ideas
of the great masses and finding, through a psychologically correct form,
the way to the attention and thence to the heart of the broad masses. The
fact that our bright boys do not understand this merely shows how mentally
lazy and conceited they are.Once we understand how necessary it is for propaganda to be adjusted to the broad mass, the following rule results:



It is a mistake to make propaganda many-sided, like scientific instruction,
for instance.The receptivity of the great masses is very limited, their intelligence
is small, but their power of forgetting is enormous. In consequence of these
facts, all effective propaganda must be limited to a very few points and
must harp on these in sloans until the last member of the public understands
what you want him to understand by your slogan. As soon as you sacrifice
this slogan and try to be many-sided, the effect will piddle away, for the
crowd can neither digest nor retain the material offered. In this way the
result is weakened and in the end entirely cancelled out. Thus we see that propaganda must follow a simple line and correspondingly the basic tactics must be psychologically sound. For instance, it was absolutely wrong to make the enemy ridiculous, as the Austrian and German comic papers did. It was absolutely wrong because actual contact with an enemy soldier was bound to arouse an entirely different conviction, and the results were devastating; for now the German soldier, under the direct impression of the enemy's resistance, felt himself swindled by his propaganda service. His desire to fight, or even to stand film, was not strengthened, but the opposite occurred. His courage flagged.By contrast, the war propaganda of the English and Americans
was psychologically sound. By representing the Germans to their own people
as barbarians and Huns, they prepared the individual soldier for the terrors
of war, and thus helped to preserve him from disappointments. After this,
the most terrible weapon that was used against him seemed only to confirm
what his propagandists had told him; it likewise reinforced his faith in
the truth of his government's assertions, while on the other hand it increased
his rage and hatred against the vile enemy For the cruel effects of the
weapon, whose use by the enemy he now came to know, gradually came to confirm
for him the 'Hunnish' brutality of the barbarous enemy, which he had heard
all about; and it never dawned on him for a moment that his own weapons
possibly, if not probably, might be even more terrible in their effects.And so the English soldier could never feel that he had been
misinformed by his own countrymen, as unhappily was so much the case with
the German soldier that in the end he rejected everything coming from this
source as 'swindles' and 'bunk.' All this resulted from the idea that any
old simpleton (or even somebody who was intelligent ' in other things ')
could be assigned to propaganda work, and the failure to realize that the
most brilliant psychologists would have been none too good.And so the German war propaganda offered an unparalleled example
of an 'enlightenment' service working in reverse, since any correct psychology
was totally lacking.There was no end to what could be learned from the enemy by
a man who kept his eyes open, refused to let his perceptions be ossified,
and for four and a half years privately turned the stormflood of enemy propaganda
over in his brain.What our authorities least of all understood was the very first
axiom of all propagandist activity: to wit, the basically subjective and
one-sided attitude it must take toward every question it deals with. In
this connection, from the very beginning of the War and from top to bottom,
such sins were committed that we were entitled to doubt whether so much
absurdity could really be attributed to pure stupidity alone.What, for example, would we say about a poster that was supposed
to advertise a new soap and that described other soaps as 'good'?We would only shake our heads.Exactly the same applies to political advertising.The function of propaganda is, for example, not to weigh and
ponder the rights of different people, but exclusively to emphasize the
one right which it has set out to argue for. Its task is not to make an
objective study of the truth, in so far as it favors the enemy, and then
set it before the masses with academic fairness; its task is to serve our
own right, always and unflinchingly.It was absolutely wrong to discuss war-guilt from the standpoint
that Germany alone could not be held responsible for the outbreak of the
catastrophe; it would have been correct to load every bit of the blame on
the shoulders of the enemy, even if this had not really corresponded to
the true facts, as it actually did.And what was the consequence of this halfheartedness?The broad mass of a nation does not consist of diplomats, or
even professors of political law, or even individuals capable of forming
a rational opinion; it consists of plain mortals, wavering and inclined
to doubt and uncertainty. As soon as our own propaganda admits so much as
a glimmer of right on the other side, the foundation for doubt in our own
right has been laid. The masses are then in no position to distinguish where
foreign injustice ends and our own begins. In such a case they become uncertain
and suspicious, especially if the enemy refrains from going in for the same
nonsense, but unloads every bit of blame on his adversary. Isn't it perfectly
understandable that the whole country ends up by lending more credence to
enemy propaganda, which is more unified and coherent, than to its own? And
particularly a people that suffers from the mania of objectivity as much
as the Germans. For, after all this, everyone will take the greatest pains
to avoid doing the enemy any injustice, even at the peril of seriously besmirching
and even destroying his own people and country.Of course, this was not the intent of the responsible authorities,
but the people never realize that.The people in their overwhelming majority are so feminine by
nature and attitude that sober reasoning determines their thoughts and actions
far less than emotion and feeling. And this sentiment is not complicated,
but very simple and all of a piece. It does not have multiple shadings;
it has a positive and a negative; love or hate, right or wrong, truth or
lie never half this way and half that way, never partially, or that kind
of thing.English propagandists understood all this most brilliantly-and
acted accordingly. They made no half statements that might have given rise
to doubts.Their brilliant knowledge of the primitive sentiments of the
broad masses is shown by their atrocity propaganda, which was adapted to
this condition. As ruthless as it was brilliant, it created the preconditions
for moral steadfastness at the front, even in the face of the greatest actual
defeats, and just as strikingly it pilloried the German enemy as the sole
guilty party for the outbreak of the War: the rabid, impudent bias and persistence
with which this lie was expressed took into account the emotional, always
extreme, attitude of the great masses and for this reason was believed.How effective this type of propaganda was is most strikingly
shown by the fact that after four years of war it not only enabled the enemy
to stick to its guns, but even began to nibble at our own people.It need not surprise us that our propaganda did not enjoy this
success. In its inner ambiguity alone, it bore the germ of ineffectualness.
And finally its content was such that it was very vunlikely to make the
necessary impression on the masses. Only our feather-brained 'statesmen'
could have dared to hope that this insipid pacifistic bilge could fire men's
spirits till they were willing to die.As a result, their miserable stuff 1 was useless, even harmful
in fact.But the most brilliant propagandist technique will yield no
success unless one fundamental principle is borne in mind constantly and
with unfiagging attention. It must confine itself to a few points and repeat
them over and over. Here, as so often in this world, persistence is the
first and most important requirement for success.Particularly in the field of propaganda, we must never let ourselves
be led by aesthetes or people who have grown blase: not by the former, because
the form and expression of our propaganda would soon, instead of being suitable
for the masses, have drawing power only for literary teas; and of the second
we must beware, because, lacking in any fresh emotion of their own, they
are always on the lookout for new stimulation. These people are quick to
weary of everything; they want variety, and they are never able to feel
or understand the needs of their fellow men who are not yet so callous.
They are always the first to criticize a propaganda campaign, or rather
its content, which seems to them too old-fashioned, too hackneyed, too out-of-date,
etc. They are always after novelty, in search of a change, and this makes
them mortal enemies of any effective political propaganda. For as soon as
the organization and the content of propaganda begin to suit their tastes,
it loses all cohesion and evaporates completely.The purpose of propaganda is not to provide interesting distraction
for blase young gentlemen, but to convince, and what I mean is to convince
the masses. But the masses are slowmoving, and they always require a certain
time before they are ready even to notice a thing, and only after the simplest
ideas are repeated thousands of times will the masses finally remember them.When there is a change, it must not alter the content of what
the propaganda is driving at, but in the end must always say the same thing.
For instance, a slogan must be presented from different angles, but the
end of all remarks must always and immutably be the slogan itself. Only
in this way can the propaganda have a unified and complete effect.This broadness of outline from which we must never depart, in
combination with steady, consistent emphasis, allows our final success to
mature. And then, to our amazement, we shall see what tremendous results
such perseverance leads to-to results that are almost beyond our understanding.All advertising, whether in the field of business or politics,
achieves success through the continuity and sustained uniformity of its
application.Here, too, the example of enemy war propaganda was typical;
limited to a few points, devised exdusively for the masses, carried on with
indefatigable persistence. Once the basic ideas and methods of execution
were recognized as correct, they were applied throughout the whole War without
the slightest change. At first the claims of the propaganda were so impudent
that people thought it insane; later, it got on people's nerves; and in
the end, it was believed. After four and a half years, a revolution broke
out in Germany; and its slogans originated in the enemy's war propaganda.And in England they understood one more thing: that this spiritual
weapon can succeed only if it is applied on a tremendous scale, but that success amply covers all costs.There, propaganda was regarded as a weapon of the first order,
while in our country it was the last resort of unemployed politicians and
a comfortable haven for slackers.And, as was to be expected, its results all in all were zero.


WITH THE YEAR 1915 enemy propaganda began in our country, after
1916 it became more and more intensive, till finally, at the beginning of
the year 1918, it swelled to a positive flood. Now the results of this seduction
could be seen at every step. The army gradually learned to think as the
enemy wanted it to.And the German counter-action was a complete failure.In the person of the man whose intellect and will made him its
leader, the army had the intention and determination to take up the struggle
in this field, too, but it lacked the instrument which would have been necessary.
And from the psychological point of view, it was wrong to have this enlightenment
work carried on by the troops themselves. If it was to be effective, it
had to come from home. Only then was there any assurance of success among
the men who, after all, had been performing immortal deeds of heroism and
privation for nearly four years for this homeland.But what came out of the home country?Was this failure stupidity or crime?In midsummer of 1918, after the evacuation of the southern bank
of the Marne, the German press above all conducted itself with such miserable
awkwardness, nay, criminal stupidity, that my wrath mounted by the day,
and the question arose within me: Is there really no one who can put an
end to this spiritual squandering of the army's heroism?What happened in France in 1914 when we swept into the country
in an unprecedented storm of victory? What did Italy do in the days after
her Isonzo front had collapsed? And what again did France do in the spring
of 1918 when the attack of the German divisions seemed to lift her positions
off their hinges and the far-reaching arm of the heavy long-range batteries
began to knock at the doors of Paris?How they whipped the fever heat of national passion into the
faces of the hastily retreating regiments in those countries ! What propaganda
and ingenious demagogy were used to hammer the faith in final victory back
into the hearts of the broken fronts!Meanwhile, what happened in our country?Nothing, or worse than nothing.Rage and indignation often rose up in me when I looked at the
latest newspapers, and came face to face with the psychological mass murder
that was being committed.More than once I was tormented by the thought that if Providence
had put me in the place of the incapable or criminal incompetents or scoundrels
in our propaganda service, our battle with Destiny would have taken a different
turn.In these months I felt for the first time the whole malice of
Destiny which kept me at the front in a position where every negro might
accidentally shoot me to bits, while elsewhere I would have been able to
perform quite different services for the fatherland !For even then I was rash enough to believe that I would have
succeeded in this.But I was a nameless soldier, one among eight million!And so it was better to hold my tongue and do my duty in the
trenches as best I could.In the summer of 1915, the first enemy leaflets fell into
our hands.Aside from a few changes in the form of presentation, their
Content was almost always the same, to wit: that the suffering was growing
greater and greater in Germany; that the War was going to last forever while
the hope of winning it was gradually vanishing; that the people at home
were, therefore, longing for peace, but that 'militarism' and the 'Kaiser'
did not allow it; that the whole world-to whom this was very well known-
was, therefore, not waging a war on the German people, but exclusively against
the sole guilty party, the Kaiser; that, therefore, the War would not be
over before this enemy of peaceful humanity should be eliminated; that when
the War was ended, the libertarian and democratic nations would take the
German people into the league of eternal world peace, which would be assured
from the hour when ' Prussian militarism ' was destroyed.The better to illustrate these claims, 'letters from home' were
often reprinted whose contents seemed to confirm these assertions.On the whole, we only laughed in those days at all these efforts.
The leaflets were read, then sent back to the higher staffs, and for the
most part forgotten until the wind again sent a load of them sailing down
into the trenches; for, as a rule, the leaflets were brought over by airplanes.In this type of propaganda there was one point which soon inevitably
attracted attention: in every sector of the front where Bavarians were stationed,
Prussia was attacked with extraordinary consistency, with the assurance
that not only was Prussia on the one hand the really guilty and responsible
party for the whole war, but that on the other hand there was not the slightest
hostility against Bavaria in particular; however, there was no helping Bavaria
as long as she served Prussian militarism and helped to pull its chestnuts
out of the fire.Actually this kind of propaganda began to achieve certain effects
in 1915. The feeling against Prussia grew quite visibly among the troops-yet
not a single step was taken against it from above. This was more than a
mere sin of omission, and sooner or later we were bound to suffer most catastrophically
for it; and not just the 'Prussians,' but the whole German people, to which
Bavaria herself is not the last to belong.In this direction enemy propaganda began to achieve unquestionable
successes from 1916 on.Likewise the complaining letters direct from home had long been
having their effect. It was no longer necessary for the enemy to transmit
them to the frontline soldiers by means of leaflets, etc. And against this,
aside from a few psychologically idiotic 'admonitions' on the part of the
'government,' nothing was done. Just as before, the front was flooded with
this poison dished up by thoughtless women at home, who, of course, did
not suspect that this was the way to raise the enemy's confidence in victory
to the highest pitch, thus consequently to prolong and sharpen the sufferings
of their men at the fighting front. In the time that followed, the senseless
letters of German women cost hundreds of thousands of men their lives.Thus, as early as 1916, there appeared various phenomena that
would better have been absents The men at the front complained and 'beefed';
they began to be dissatisfied in many ways and sometimes were even righteously
indignant. While they starved and suffered, while their people at home lived
in misery, there was abundance and high-living in other circles. Yes, even
at the fighting front all was not in order in this respect.Even then a slight crisis was emerging-but these were still
'internal' affairs. The same man, who at first had cursed and grumbled,
silently did his duty a few minutes later as though
this was a matter of course. The same company, which at first was discontented,
clung to the piece of trench it had to defend as though Germany's fate depended
on these few hundred yards of mudholes. It was still the front of the old,
glorious army of heroes!I was to learn the difference between it and the homeland in
a
glaring contrast.At the end of September, 1916, my division moved into the Battle
of the Somme. For us it was the first of the tremendous battles of materiel
which now followed, and the impression was hard to describe-it was more
like hell than war.Under a whirlwind of drumfire that lasted for weeks, the German
front held fast, sometimes forced back a little, then again pushing forward,
but never wavering.On October 7, 1916, I was wounded.I was brought safely to the rear, and from there was to return
to Germany with a transport.Two years had now passed since I had seen the homeland under
such conditions an almost endless time. I could scarcely imagine how Germans
looked who were not in uniform. As I lay in the field hospital at Hermies,
I almost collapsed for fright when suddenly the voice of a German woman
serving as a nurse addressed a man lying beside me.For the first time in two years to hear such a sound!The closer our train which was to bring us home approached the
border, the more inwardly restless each of us became. All the towns passed
by, through which we had ridden two years previous as young soldiers: Brussels,
Louvain, Liege, and at last we thought we recognized the first German house
by its high gable and beautiful shutters.The fatherland!In October, 1914, we had burned with stormy enthusiasm as we
crossed the border; now silence and emotion reigned. Each of us was happy
that Fate again permitted him to see what he had had to defend so hard with
his life, and each man was wellnigh ashamed to let another look him in the
eye.It was almost on the anniversary of the day when I left for
the front that I reached the hospital at Beelitz near Berlin.What a change! From the mud of the Battle of the Somme into
the white beds of this miraculous building! In the beginning we hardly dared
to lie in them properly. Only gradually could we reaccustom ourselves to
this new world.Unfortunately, this world was new in another respect as well.The spirit of the army at the front seemed no longer to be a
guest here.l Here for the first time I heard a thing that was still unknown
at the front; men bragging about their own cowardice! For the cursing and
'beefing' you could hear at the front were never an incitement to shirk
duty or a glorification of the coward. No! The coward still passed as a
coward and as nothing else; and al he contempt which struck him was still
general, just like the admiration that was given to the real hero. But here
in the hospital it was partly almost the opposite: the most unscrupulous
agitators did the talking and attempted with all the means of their contemptible
eloquence to make the conceptions of the decent soldiers ridiculous and
hold up the spineless coward as an example. A few wretched scoundrels in
particular set the tone. One boasted that he himself had pulled his hand
through a barbed-wire entanglement in order to be sent to the hospital;
in spite of this absurd wound he seemed to have been here for an endless
time, and for that matter he had only gotten into the transport to Germany
by a swindle. This poisonous fellow went so far in his insolent effrontery
as to represent his own cowardice as an emanation 2 Of higher bravery than
the hero's death of an honest soldier. Many listened in silence, others
went away, but a few assented.Disgust mounted to my throat, but the agitator was calmly tolerated
in the institution. What could be done? The management couldn't help knowing,
and actually did know, exactly who and what he was. But nothing was done.When I could again walk properly, I obtained permission to go
to Berlin.Clearly there was dire misery everywhere. The big city was suffering
from hunger. Discontent was great. In various soldiers' homes the tone was
like that in the hospital. It gave you the impression that these scoundrels
were intentionally frequenting such places in order to spread their views.But much, much worse were conditions in Munich itself !When I was discharged from the hospital as cured and transferred
to the replacement battalion, I thought I could no longer recognize the
city. Anger, discontent, cursing, wherever you went! In the replacement
battalion itself the mood was beneath all criticism. Here a contributing
factor was the immeasurably clumsy way in which the field soldiers were
treated by old training officers who hadn't spent a single hour in the field
and for this reason alone were only partially able to create a decent relationship
with the old soldiers. For it had to be admitted that the latter possessed
certain qualities which could be explained by their service at the front,
but which remained totally incomprehensible to the leaders of these replacement
detachments while the officer who had come from the front was at least able
to explain them. The latter, of course, was respected by the men quite differently
than the rear commander. But aside from this, the general mood was miserable:
to be a slacker passed almost as a sign of higher wisdom, while loyal steadfastness
was considered a symptom of inner weakness and narrow-mindedness. The offices
were filled with Jews. Nearly every clerk was a Jew and nearly every Jew
was a clerk. I was amazed at this plethora of warriors of the chosen people
and could not help but compare them with their rare representatives at the
front.As regards economic life, things were even worse Here the Jewish
people had become really 'indispensable.' The spider was slowly beginning
to suck the blood out of the people's pores. Through the war corporations,
they had found an instrument with which, little by little, to finish off
the national free economyThe necessity of an unlimited centralization was emphasizedThus, in the year 191S17 nearly the whole of production was
under the control of Jewish finance.But against whom was the hatred of the people directed?At this time I saw with horror a catastrophe approaching which,
unless averted in time, would inevitably lead to collapse.While the Jew robbed the whole nation and pressed it beneath
his domination, an agitation was carried on against the 'Prussians.' At
home, as at the front, nothing was done against this poisonous propaganda.
No one seemed to suspect that the collapse of Prussia would not by a long
shot bring with it a resurgence of Bavaria; no, that on the contrary any
fall of the one would inevitably carry the other along with it into the
abyss.I felt very badly about this behavior. In it I could only see
the craftiest trick of the Jew, calculated to distract the general attention
from himself and to others. While the Bavarian and the Prussian fought,
he stole the existence of both of them from under their nose; while the
Bavarians were cursing the Prussians, the Jew organized the revolution and
smashed Prussia and Bavaria at once.I could not bear this accursed quarrel among German peoples,
and was glad to return to the front, for which I reported at once after
my arrival in Munich.At the beginning of March, 1917, I was back with my regiment.Toward the end of I911, the low point of the army's dejection
seemed to have passed. The whole army took fresh hope and fresh courage
after the Russian collapse. The conviction that the War would end with the
victory of Germany, after all, began to seize the troops more and more.
Again singing could be heard and the Calamity Lanes became rarer. Again
people believed in the future of the fatherland.Especially the Italian collapse of autumn, 1917, had had the
most wonderful effect; in this victory we saw a proof of the possibility
of breaking through the front, even aside from the Russian theater of war.
A glorious faith flowed again into the hearts of the millions, enabling
them to await spring, 1918, with relief and confidence. The foe was visibly
depressed. In this winter he remained quieter than usual. This was the lull
before the storm.But, while those at the front were undertaking the last preparations
for the final conclusion of the eternal struggle, while endless transports
of men and materiel were rolling toward the West Front, and the troops were
being trained for the great attack- the biggest piece of chicanery in the
whole war broke out in Germany.Germany must not be victorious; in the last hour, with victory
already threatening to be with the German banners, a means was chosen which
seemed suited to stifle the German spring attack in the germ with one blow,
to make victory impossible:The munitions strike was organizedIf it succeeded, the German front was bound to collapse, and
the Vorwarts' desire that this time victory should not be with the German
banners would inevitably be fulfilled. Owing to the lack of munitions, the
front would inevitably be pierced in a few weeks; thus the offensive was
thwarted, the Entente saved international capital was made master of Germany,
and the inner aim of the Marxist swindle of nations achieved.To smash the national economy and establish the rule of international
capital a goal which actually was achieved, thanks to the stupidity and
credulity of the one side and the bottomless cowardice of the other.To be sure, the munitions strike did not have all the hoped-for
success with regard to starving the front of arms; it collapsed too soon
for the lack of munitions as such-as the plan had been- to doom the army
to destruction.But how much more terrible was the moral damage that had been
done!In the first place: What was the army fighting for if the homeland
itself no longer wanted victory? For whom the immense sacrifices and privations?
The soldier is expected to fight for victory and the homeland goes on strike
against it!And in the second place: What was the effect on the enemy?In the winter of 1917 to 1918, dark clouds appeared for the
first time in the firmament of the Allied world. For nearly four years they
had been assailing the German warrior and had been unable to encompass his
downfall; and all this while the German had only his shield arm free for
defense, while his sword was obliged to strike, now in the East, now in
the South. But now at last the giant's back was free. Streams of blood had
flown before he administered final defeat to one of his foes. Now in the
West his shield was going to be joined by his sword; up till then the enemy
had been unable to break his defense, and now he himself was facing attack.The enemy feared him and trembled for their victory.In London and Paris one deliberation followed another, but at
the front sleepy silence prevailed. Suddenly their high mightinesses lost
their effrontery. Even enemy propaganda was having a hard time of it; it
was no longer so easy to prove the hopelessness of German victory.But this also applied to the Allied troops at the fronts. A
ghastly light began to dawn slowly even on them. Their inner attitude toward
the German soldier had changed. Until then he may have seemed to them a
fool destined to defeat; but now it was the destroyer of the Russian ally
that stood before them. The limitation of the German offensives to the East,
though born of necessity, now seemed to them brilliant tactics. For three
years these Germans had stormed the Russian front, at first it seemed without
the slightest success. The Allies almost laughed over this aimless undertaking;
for in the end the Russian giant with his overwhelming number of men was
sure to remain the victor while Germany would inevitably collapse from loss
of blood. Reality seemed to confirm this hope.Since the September days of 1914, when for the first time the
endless hordes of Russian prisoners from the Battle of Tannenberg began
moving into Germany over the roads and railways, this stream was almost
without end-but for every defeated and destroyed army a new one arose. Inexhaustibly
the gigantic Empire gave the Tsar more and more new soldiers and the War
its new victims. How long could Germany keep up this race? Would not the
day inevitably come when the Germans would win their last victory and still
the Russian armies would not be marching to their last battle? And then
what? In all human probability the victory of Russia could be postponed,
but it was bound to come.Now all these hopes were at an end: the ally who had laid the
greatest blood sacrifices on the altar of common interests was at the end
of his strength, and lay prone at the feet of the inexorable assailant.
Fear and horror crept into the hearts of the soldiers who had hitherto believed
so blindly. They feared the coming spring. For if up until then they had
not succeeded in defeating the German when he was able to place only part
of his forces on the Western Front, how could they count on victory now
that the entire power of this incredible heroic state seemed to be concentrating
for an attack on the West?The shadows of the South Tyrolean Mountains lay oppressive on
the fantasy; as far as the mists of Flanders, the defeated armies of Cadorna
conjured up gloomy faces, and faith in victory ceded to fear of coming defeat.Then-when out of the cool nights the Allied soldiers already
seemed to hear the dull rumble of the advancing storm units of the German
army, and with eyes fixed in fear and trepidation awaited the approaching
judgment, suddenly a flaming red light arose in Germany, casting its glow
into the last shell-hole of the enemy front: at the very moment when the
German divisions were receiving their last instructions for the great attack,
the general strike broke out in Germany.At first the world was speechless. But then enemy propaganda
hurled itself with a sigh of relief on this help that came in the eleventh
hour. At one stroke the means was found to restore the sinking confidence
of the Allied soldiers, once again to represent the probability of victory
as certain,l and transform dread anxiety in the face of coming events into
determined confidence. Now the regiments awaiting the German attack could
be sent into the greatest battle of all time with the conviction that, not
the boldness of the German assault would decide the end of this war but
the perseverance of the defense. Let the Germans achieve as many victories
as they pleased; at home the revolution was before the door, and not the
victorious army..English, French, and American newspapers began to implant this
faith in the hearts of their readers while an infinitely shrewd propaganda
raised the spirits of the troops at the front.'Germany facing revolution! Victory of the Allies inevitable!
This was the best medicine to help the wavering poilu and Tommy back on
their feet. Now rifles and machine guns could again be made to fire, and
a headlong flight in panic fear was replaced by hopeful resistance.This was the result of the munitions strike. It strengthened
the enemy peoples' belief in victory and relieved the paralyzing despair
of the Allied front-in the time that followed, thousands of German soldiers
had to pay for this with their blood. The instigators of this vilest of
all scoundrelly tricks were the aspirants to the highest state positions
of revolutionary Germany.On the German side, it is true, the visible reaction to this
crime could at first apparently be handled; on the enemy side, however,
the consequences did not fail to appear. The resistance had lost the aimlessness
of an army giving up all as lost, and took on the bitterness of a struggle
for victory.For now, in all human probability, victory was inevitable if
the Western Front could stand up under a German attack for only a few months.
The parliaments of the Entente, however, recognized the possibilities for
the future and approved unprecedented expenditures for continuing the propaganda
to disrupt Germany.I had the good fortune to fight in the first two offensives
and in the last.These became the most tremendous impressions of my life; tremendous
because now for the last time, as in 1914, the fight lost the character
of defense and assumed that of attack. A sigh of relief passed through the
trenches and the dugouts of the German army when at length, after more than
three years' endurance in the enemy hell, the day of retribution came. Once
again the victorious battalions cheered and hung the last wreaths of immortal
laurel on their banners rent by the storm of victory. Once again the songs
of the fatherland roared to the heavens along the endless marching columns,
and for the last time the Lord's grace smiled on His ungrateful children.In midsummer of 1918, oppressive sultriness lay over the
front. At home there was fighting. For what? In the different detachments
of the field army all sorts of things were being said: that the war was
now hopeless and only fools could believe in victory That not the people
but only capital and the monarchy had an interest in holding out any longer-all
this came from the homeland and was discussed even at the front.At first the front reacted very little. What did we care about
universal suffrage? Had we fought four years for that? It was vile banditry
to steal the war aim of the dead heroes from their very graves. The young
regiments had not gone to their death in Flanders crying: 'Long dive universal
suffrage and the secret ballot,' but crying: 'Deutschland uber Alles in
der Welt.' A small yet not entirely insignificant, difference. But most
of those who cried out for suffrage hadn't ever been in the place where
they now wanted to fight for it. The front was unknown to the whole political
party rabble. Only a small fraction of the Parliamentary ian gentlemen could
be seen where all decent Germans with sound limbs left were sojourning at
that time.And so the old personnel at the front was not very receptive
to this new war aims of Messrs. Ebert, Scheidemann, Barth, Liebnitz, etc.
They couldn't for the life of them see why suddenly the slackers should
have the right to arrogate to themselves control of the state over the heads
of the army.My personal attitude was established from the very start. I
hated the whole gang of miserable party scoundrels and betrayers of the
people in the extreme. It had long been clear to me that this whole gang
was not really concerned with the welfare of the nation, but with filling
empty pockets. For this they were ready to sacrifice the whole nation, and
if necessary to let Germany be destroyed; and in my eyes this made them
ripe for hanging. To take consideration of their wishes was to sacrifice
the interests of the working people for the benefit of a few pickpockets;
these wishes could only be fulfilled by giving up Germany.And the great majority of the embattled army still thought the
same. Only the reinforcements coming from home rapidly grew worse and worse,
so that their arrival meant, not a reinforcement but a weakening of our
fighting strength. Especially the young reinforcements were mostly worthless.
It was often hard to believe that these were sons of the same nation which
had once sent its youth out to the battle for Ypres.In August and September, the symptoms of disorganization increased
more and more rapidly, although the effect of the enemy attack was not to
be compared with the terror of our former defensive battles. The past Battle
of Flanders and the Battle of the Somme had been awesome by comparison.At the end of September, my division arrived for the third time
at the positions which as young volunteer regiments we had once stormed.What a memory!In October and November of I914, we had there received our baptism
of fire. Fatherland love in our heart and songs on our lips, our young regiments
had gone into the battle as to a dance The most precious blood there sacrificed
itself joyfully, in the faith that it was preserving the independence and
freedom of the fatherland.In July, I917, we set foot for the second time on the ground
that was sacred to all of us. For in it the best comrades slumbered still
almost children, who had run to their death with gleaming eyes for the one
true fatherland.We old soldiers, who had then marched out with the regiment
stood in respectful emotion at this shrine of 'loyalty and obedience to
the death.'Now in a hard defensive battle the regiment was to defend this
soil which it had stormed three years earlier.With three weeks of drumfire the Englishman prepared the great
Flanders offensive. The spirits of the dead seemed to quicken; the regiment
clawed its way into the filthy mud, bit into the various holes and craters,
and neither gave ground nor wavered. As once before in this place, it grew
steadily smaller and thinner, until the British attack finally broke loose
on July 13, 1917.In the first days of August we were relieved.The regiment had turned into a few companies: crusted with mud
they tottered back, more like ghosts than men. But aside from a few hundred
meters of shell holes, the Englishman had found nothing but death.Now, in the fall of 1918, we stood for the third time on the
storm site of 1914. The little city of Comines where we then rested had
now become our battlefield. Yet, though the battlefield was the same, the
men had changed: for now 'political discussions went on even among the troops.
As everywhere, the poison of the hinterland began, here too, to be effective.
And the younger recruit fell down completely for he came from home.In the night of October 13, the English gas attack on the southern
front before Ypres burst loose; they used yellow-cross gas, whose effects
were still unknown to us as far as personal experience was concerned. In
this same night I myself was to become acquainted with it. On a hill south
of Wervick, we came on the evening of October 13 into several hours of drumfire
with gas shells which continued all night more or less violently. As early
as midnight, a number of us passed out, a few of our comrades forever. Toward
morning I, too, was seized with pain which grew worse with every quarter
hour, and at seven in the morning I stumbled and tottered back with burning
eyes; taking with me my last report of the War.A few hours later, my eyes had turned into glowing coals; it
had grown dark around me.Thus I came to the hospital at Pasewalk in Pomerania, and there
I was fated to experience-the greatest villainy of the century.For a long time there had been something indefinite but repulsive
in the air. People were telling each other that in the next few weeks it
would ' start in '-but I was unable to imagine what was meant by this. First
I thought of a strike like that of the spring. Unfavorable rumors were constantly
coming from the navy, which was said to be in a state of ferment. But this,
too, seemed to me more the product of the imagination of individual scoundrels
than an affair involving real masses. Even in the hospital, people were
discussing the end of the War which they hoped would come soon, but no one
counted on anything immediate. I was unable to read the papers.In November the general tension increased.And then one day, suddenly and unexpectedly, the calamity descended.
Sailors arrived in trucks and proclaimed the revolution; a few Jewish youths
were the 'leaders' in this struggle for the 'freedom, beauty, and dignity'
of our national existence. None of them had been at the front. By way of
a so-called 'gonorrhoea hospital,' the three Orientals had been sent back
home from their second-line base. Now they raised the red rag in the homeland.In the last few days I had been getting along better. The piercing
pain in my eye sockets was diminishing; slowly I succeeded in distinguishing
the broad outlines of the things about me. I was given grounds for hoping
that I should recover my eyesight at least well enough to be able to pursue
some profession later. To be sure, I could no longer hope that I would ever
be able to draw again. In any case, I was on the road to improvement when
the monstrous thing happened.My first hope was still that this high treason might still be
a more or less local affair. I also tried to bolster up a few comrades in
this view. Particularly my Bavarian friends in the hospital were more than
accessible to this. The mood there was anything but 'revolutionary.' I could
not imagine that the madness would break out in Munich, too. Loyalty to
the venerable House of Wittelsbach seemed to me stronger, after all, than
the will of a few Jews. Thus I could not help but believe that this was
merely a Putsch on the part of the navy and would be crushed in the next
few days.The next few days came and with them the most terrible certainty
of my life. The rumors became more and more oppressive. What I had taken
for a local affair was now said to be a general revolution. To this was
added the disgraceful news from the front. They wanted to capitulate. Was
such a thing really possible?On November 10, the pastor came to the hospital for a short
address: now we learned everything.In extreme agitation, I, too, was present at the short speech.
The dignified old gentleman seemed all a-tremble as he informed us that
the House of Hollenzollern should no longer bear the German imperial crown;
that the fatherland had become a ' republic '; that we must pray to the
Almighty not to refuse His blessing to this change and not to abandon our
people in the times to come. He could not help himself, he had to speak
a few words in memory of the royal house. He began to praise its services
in Pomerania, in Prussia, nay, to the German fatherland, and-here he began
to sob gently to himself-in the little hall the deepest dejection settled
on all hearts, and I believe that not an eye was able to restrain its tears.
But when the old gentleman tried to go on, and began to tell us that we
must now end the long War, yes, that now that it was lost and we were throwing
ourselves upon the mercy of the victors, our fatherland would for the future
be exposed to dire oppression, that the armistice should be accepted with
confidence in the magnanimity of our previous enemies-I could stand it no
longer. It became impossible for me to sit still one minute more. Again
everything went black before my eyes; I tottered and groped my way back
to the dormitory, threw myself on my bunk, and dug my burning head into
my blanket and pillow.Since the day when I had stood at my mother's grave, I had not
wept. When in my youth Fate seized me with merciless hardness, my defiance
mounted. When in the long war years Death snatched so many a dear comrade
and friend from our ranks, it would have seemed to me almost a sin to complain-
after all, were they not dying for Germany? And when at length the creeping
gas-in the last days of the dreadful struggle- attacked me, too, and began
to gnaw at my eyes, and beneath the fear of going blind forever, I nearly
lost heart for a moment, the voice of my conscience thundered at me: Miserable
wretch, are you going to cry when thousands are a hundred times worse off
than you! And so I bore my lot in dull silence. But now I could not help
it. Only now did I see how all personal suffering vanishes in comparison
with the misfortune of the fatherland.And so it had all been in vain. In vain all the sacrifices and
privations; in vain the hunger and thirst of months which were often endless;
in vain the hours in which, with mortal fear clutching at our hearts, we
nevertheless did our duty; and in vain the death of two millions who died.
Would not the graves of all the hundreds of thousands open, the graves of
those who with faith in the fatherland had marched forth never to return?
Would they not open and send the silent mud- and blood-covered heroes back
as spirits of vengeance to the homeland which had cheated them with such
mockery of the highest sacrifice which a man can make to his people in this
world? Had they died for is, the soldiers of August and September, 1914?
Was it for this that in the autumn of the same year the volunteer regiments
marched after their old comrades? Was it for this that these boys of seventeen
sank into the earth of Flanders? Was this the meaning of the sacrifice which
the German mother made to the fatherland when with sore heart she let her
best-loved boys march off, never to see them again? Did all this happen
only so that a gang of wretched criminals could lay hands on the fatherland?Was it for this that the German soldier had stood host in the
sun's heat-and in snowstorms, hungry, thirsty, and freezing, weary from
sleepless nights and endless marches? Was it for this that he had lain in
the hell of the drumfire and in the fever of gas attacks without wavering,
always thoughtful of his one duty to preserve the fatherland from the enemy
peril?Verily these heroes deserved a headstone: 'Thou Wanderer who
comest to Germany, tell those at home that we lie here, true to the fatherland
and obedient to duty.'And what about those at home-?And yet, was it only our own sacrifice that we had to weigh
in the balance? Was the Germany of the past less precious? Was there no
obligation toward our own history? Were we still worthy to relate the glory
of the past to ourselves? And how could this deed be justified to future
generations?Miserable and degenerate criminals!The more I tried to achieve clarity on the monstrous event in
this hour, the more the shame of indignation and disgrace burned my brow.
What was all the pain in my eyes compared to this misery?There followed terrible days and even worse nights-I knew that
all was lost. Only fools, liars, and criminals could hope in the mercy of
the enemy. In these nights hatred grew in me, hatred for those responsible
for this deed.In the days that followed, my own fate became known to me.I could not help but laugh at the thought of my own future which
only a short time before had given me such bitter concern. Was it not ridiculous
to expect to build houses on such ground? At last it became clear to me
that what had happened was what I had so often feared but had never been
able to believe with my emotions.Kaiser William II was the first German Emperor to hold out a
conciliatory hand to the leaders of Marxism, without suspecting that scoundrels
have no honor. While they still held the imperial hand in theirs, their
other hand was reaching for the dagger.There is no making pacts with Jews; there can only be the hard:
either-or.I, for my part, decided to go into politics.


AT THE END of November, 1918, I returned to Munich. Again I
went to the replacement battalion of my regiment, which was in the hands
of 'soldiers' councils.' Their whole activity was so repellent to me that
I decided at once to leave again as soon as possible. With Schmiedt Ernst,
a faithful war comrade, I went to Traunstein and remained there till the
camp was broken up.In March, 1919, we went back to Munich.The situation was untenable and moved inevitably toward a further
continuation of the revolution. Eisner's death only hastened the development
and finally led to a dictatorship of the Councils, or, better expressed,
to a passing rule of the Jews, as had been the original aim of the instigators
of the whole revolution.At this time endless plans chased one another through my head.
For days I wondered what could be done, but the end of every meditation
was the sober realization that I, nameless as I was, did not possess the
least basis for any useful action. I shall come back to speak of the reasons
why then, as before, I could not decide to join any of the existing parties.
In the course of the new revolution of the Councils I for the first time
acted in such a way as to arouse the disapproval of the Central Council.
Early in the morning of April 27, 1919, I was to be arrested, but, faced
with my leveled carbine, the three scoundrels lacked the necessary courage
and marched off as they had come.A few days after the liberation of Munich, I was ordered to
report to the examining commission concerned with revolutionary occurrences
in the Second Infantry Regiment.This was my first more or less purely political activity.Only a few weeks afterward I received orders to attend a ' course
' that was held for members of the armed forces. In it the soldier was supposed
to learn certain fundamentals of civic thinking. For me the value of the
whole affair was that I now obtained an opportunity of fleeting a few like-minded
comrades with whom I could thoroughly discuss the situation of the moment.
All of us were more or less firmly convinced that Germany could no longer
be saved from the impending collapse by the parties of the November crime,
the Center and the Social Democracy, and that the so-called 'bourgeois-national'
formations, even with the best of intentions, could never repair what had
happened. A whole series of preconditions were lacking, without which such
a task simply could not succeed. The following period confirmed the opinion
we then held. Thus, in our own circle we discussed the foundation of a new
party. The basic ideas which we had in mind were the same as those later
realized in the ' German Workers' Party.' The name of the movement to be
founded would from the very beginning have to offer the possibility of approaching
the broad masses; for without this quality the whole task seemed aimless
and superfluous. Thus we arrived at the name of ' Social Revolutionary Party';
this because the social views of the new organization did indeed mean a
revolution.But the deeper ground for this lay in the following: however
much I had concerned myself with economic questions at an earlier day, my
efforts had remained more or less within the limits resulting from the contemplation
of social questions as such. Only later did this framework broaden through
examination of the German alliance policy. This in very great part was the
outcome of a false estimation of economics as well as unclarity concerning
the possible basis for sustaining the German people in the future. But all
these ideas were based on the opinion that capital in any case was solely
the result of labor and, therefore, like itself was subject to the correction
of all those factors which can either advance or thwart human activity;
and the national importance of capital was that it depended so completely
on the greatness, freedom, and power of the state, hence of the nation,
that this bond in itself would inevitably cause capital to further the state
and the nation owing to its simple instinct of self-preservation or of reproduction.
This dependence of capital on the independent free state would, therefore,
force capital in turn to champion this freedom, power, strength, etc., of
the nation.Thus, the task of the state toward capital was comparatively
simple and clear: it only had to make certain that capital remain the handmaiden
of the state and not fancy itself the mistress of the nation. This point
of view could then be defined between two restrictive limits: preservation
of a solvent, national, and independent economy on the one hand, assurance
of the social rights of the workers on the other.Previously I had been unable to recognize with the desired clarity
the difference between this pure capital as the end result of productive
labor and a capital whose existence and essence rests exclusively on speculation.
For this I lacked the initial inspiration, which had simply not come my
way.
But now this was provided most amply by one of the various gentlemen lecturing
in the above-mentioned course: Gottfried Feder.For the first time in my life I heard a principled discussion
of international stock exchange and loan capital.Right after listening to Feder's first lecture, the thought
ran through my head that I had now found the way to one of the most essential
premises for the foundation of a new party.In my eyes Feder's merit consisted in having established
with ruthless brutality the speculative and economic character of stock
exchange and loan capital, and in having exposed its eternal and age-old
presupposition which is interest. His arguments were so sound in all fundamental
questions that their critics from the start questioned the theoretical correctness
of the idea less than they doubted the practical possibility of its execution.
But what in the eyes of others was a weakness of Feder's arguments, in my
eyes constituted their strength.It is not the task of a theoretician to determine the varying
degrees in which a cause can be realized, but to establish the cause as
such: that is to say: he must concern himself less with the road than with
the goal. In this, however, the basic correctness of an idea is decisive
and not the difficulty of its execution. As soon as the theoretician attempts
to take account of so-called 'utility' and 'reality' instead of the absolute
truth, his work will cease to be a polar star of seeking humanity and instead
will become a prescription for everyday life. The theoretician of a movement
must lay down its goal, the politician strive for its fulfillment. The thinking
of the one, therefore, will be determined by eternal truth, the actions
of the other more by the practical reality of the moment. The greatness
of the one lies in the absolute abstract soundness of his idea, that of
the other in his correct attitude toward the given facts and their advantageous
application; and in this the theoretician's aim must serve as his guiding
star. While the touchstone for the stature of a politician may be regarded
as the success of his plans and acts-in other words, the degree to which
they become reality-the realization of the theoretician's ultimate purpose
can never be realized, since, though human thought can apprehend truths
and set up crystal-clear aims, complete fulfillment will fail due to the
general imperfection and inadequacy of man. The more abstractly correct
and hence powerful the idea will be, the more impossible remains its complete
fulfillment as long as it continues to depend on human beings. Therefore,
the stature of the theoretician must not be measured by the fulfillment
of his aims, but by their soundness and the influence they have had on the
development of humanity. If this were not so, the founders of religion could
not be counted among the greatest men of this earth, since the fulfillment
of their ethical purposes will never be even approximately complete. In
its workings, even the religion of love is only the weak reflection of the
will of its exalted founder; its significance, however, lies in the direction
which it attempted to give to a universal human development of culture,
ethics, and morality.The enormous difference between the tasks of the theoretician
and the politician is also the reason why a union of both in one person
is almost never found. This is especially true of the so-called 'successful'
politician of small format, whose activity for the most part is only an
'art of the possible,' as Bismarck rather modestly characterized politics
in general. The freer such a 'politician' keeps himself from great ideas,
the easier and often the more visible, but always the more rapid, his successes
will be. To be sure, they are dedicated to earthly transitoriness and sometimes
do not survive the death of their fathers. The work of such politicians,
by and large, is unimportant nor posterity, since their successes in the
present are based solely on keeping at a distance all really great and profound
problems and ideas, which as such would only have been of value for later
generations.The execution of such aims, which have value and significance
for the most distant times, usually brings little reward to the man who
champions them and rarely finds understanding among the great masses, who
for the moment have more understanding for beer and milk regulations than
for farsighted plans for the future, whose realization can only occur far
hence, and whose benefits will be reaped only by posterity.Thus, from a certain vanity, which is always a cousin of stupidity,
the great mass of politicians will keep far removed from all really weighty
plans for the future, in order not to lose the momentary sympathy of the
great mob. The success and significance of such a politician lie then exclusively
in the present, and do not exist for posterity. But small minds are little
troubled by this; they are content.With the theoretician conditions are different. His importance
lies almost always solely in the future, for not seldom he is what is described
by the world as 'unworldly.' For if the art of the politician is really
the art of the possible, the theoretician is one of those of whom it can
be said that they are pleasing to the gods only if they demand and want
the impossible. He will almost always have to renounce the recognition of
the present, but in return, provided his ideas are immortal, will harvest
the fame of posterity.In long periods of humanity, it may happen once that the politician
is wedded to the theoretician. The more profound this fusion, however, the
greater are the obstacles opposing the work of the politician. He no longer
works for necessities which will be understood by the first best shopkeeper,
but for aims which only the fewest comprehend. Therefore, his life is torn
by love and hate. The protest of the present which does not understand the
man, struggles with the recognition of posterity-for which he works.
For the greater a man's works for the future, the less the present can comprehend
them; the harder his fight, and the rarer success. If, however, once in
centuries success does come to a man, perhaps in his latter days a faint
beam of his coming glory may shine upon him. To be sure, these great men
are only the Marathon runners of history; the laurel wreath of the present
touches only the brow of the dying hero.Among them must be counted the great warriors in this world
who, though not understood by the present, are nevertheless prepared to
carry the fight for their ideas and ideals to their end. They are the men
who some day will be closest to the heart of the people; it almost seems
as though every individual feels the duty of compensating in the past for
the sins which the present once committed against the great. Their life
and work are followed with admiring gratitude and emotion, and especially
in days of gloom they have the power to raise up broken hearts and despairing
souls.To them belong, not only the truly great statesmen, but all
other great reformers as well. Beside Frederick the Great stands Martin
Luther as well as Richard Wagner.As I listened to Gottfried Feder's first lecture about the 'breaking
of interest slavery,' I knew at once that this was a theoretical truth which
would inevitably be of immense importance for the future of the German people.
The sharp separation of stock exchange capital from the national economy
offered the possibility of opposing the internationalization of the German
economy without at the same time menacing the foundations of an independent
national self-maintenance by a struggle against all capital. The development
of Germany was much too clear in my eyes for me not to know that the hardest
battle would have to be fought, not against hostile nations, but against
international capital. In Feder's lecture I sensed a powerful slogan for
this coming struggle.And here again later developments proved how correct our sentiment
of those days was. Today the know-it-alls among our
bourgeois politicians no longer laugh at us: today even they, in so far
as they are not conscious liars, see that international stock exchange capital
was not only the greatest agitator for the War, but that especially, now
that the fight is over, it spares no effort to turn the peace into a hell.The fight against international finance and loan capital became
the most important point in the program of the German nation's struggle
for its economic independence and freedom.As regards the objections of so-called practical men, they can
be answered as follows: All fears regarding the terrible economic consequences
of the ' breaking of interest slavery ' are superfluous; for, in the first
place, the previous economic prescriptions have turned out very badly for
the German people, and your positions on the problems of national self-maintenance
remind us strongly of the reports of similar experts in former times, for
example, those of the Bavarian medical board on the question of introducing
the railroad. It is well known that none of the fears of this exalted corporation
were later realized: the travelers in the trains of the new 'steam horse
' did not get dizzy, the onlookers did not get sick, and the board fences
to hide the new invention from sight were given up-only the board fences
around the brains of all so-called 'experts' were preserved for posterity.In the second place, the following should be noted: every idea,
even the best, becomes a danger if it parades as a purpose in itself, being
in reality only a means to one. For me and all true National Socialists
there is but one doctrine: people and fatherland.What we must fight for is to safeguard the existence and reproduction
of our race and our people, the sustenance of our children and the purity
of our blood, the freedom and independence of the fatherland, so that our
people may mature for the fulfillment of the mission allotted it by the
creator of the universe.Every thought and every idea, every doctrine and all knowledge,
must serve this purpose. And everything must be examined from this point
of view and used or rejected according to its utility. Then no theory will
stiffen into a dead doctrine, since it is life alone that all things must
serve.Thus, it was the conclusions of Gottfried Feder that caused
me to delve into the fundamentals of this field with which I had previously
not been very familiar.I began to study again, and now for the first time really achieved
an understanding of the content of the Jew Karl Marx's life effort. Only
now did his Capital become really intelligible to me, and also the struggle
of the Social Democracy against the national economy, which aims only to
prepare the ground for the domination of truly international finance and
stock exchange capital.But also in another respect these courses were of the greatest
consequence to me.One day I asked for the floor. One of the participants felt
obliged to break a lance for the Jews and began to defend them in lengthy
arguments. This aroused me to an answer. The overwhelming majority of the
students present took my standpoint The result was that a few days later
I was sent into a Munich regiment as a so-called 'educational officer.'Discipline among the men was still comparatively weak at that
time. It suffered from the after-effects of the period of soldiers' councils.
Only very slowly and cautiously was it possible to replace voluntary obedience-the
pretty name that was given to the pig-sty under Kurt Eisner-by the old military
discipline and subordination. Accordingly, the men were now expected to
learn to feel and think in a national and patriotic way. In these two directions
lay the field of my new activity.I started out with the greatest enthusiasm and love. For all
at once I was offered an opportunity of speaking before a larger audience;
and the thing that I had always presumed from pure feeling without knowing
it was now corroborated: I could 'speak.' My voice, too, had grown so much
better that I could be sufficiently understood at least in every corner
of the small squad rooms.No task could make me happier than this, for now before being
discharged I was able to perform useful services to the institution which
had been so close to my heart: the army.And I could boast of some success: in the course of my lectures
I led many hundreds, indeed thousands, of comrades back to their people
and fatherland. I 'nationalized' the troops and was thus also able to help
strengthen the general discipline.Here again I became acquainted with a number of like-minded
comrades, who later began to form the nucleus of the new movement.


ONE DAY I received orders from my headquarters to find out what was behind
an apparently political organization which was planning to hold a meeting
within th next few days under the name of 'German Workers' Party'-with Gottfried
Feder as one of the speakers. I was told to go and take a look at the organization
and then make a report.The curiosity of the army toward political parties in those
days was more than understandable. The revolution had given the soldiers
the right of political activity, and it was just the most inexperienced
among them who made the most ample use of it. Not until the moment when
the Center and the Social Democracy were forced to recognize, to their own
grief, that the sympathies of the soldiers were beginning to turn away from
the revolutionary parties toward the national movement and reawakening,
did they see fit to deprive the troops of suffrage again and prohibit their
political activity.It was illuminating that the Center and the Marxists should
have taken this measure, for if they had not undertaken this curtailment
of ' civil rights '-as the political equality of the soldiers after the
revolution was called-within a few years there would have been no revolution,
and hence no more national dishonor and disgrace. The troops were then well
on their way toward ridding the nation of its leeches and the stooges of
the Entente within our walls. The fact that the so-called 'national' parties
voted enthusiastically for the correction of the previous views of the November
criminals, and thus helped to blunt the instrument of a national rising,
again showed what the eternally doctrinaire ideas of these innocents among
innocents can lead to. This bourgeoisie was really suffering from mental
senility; in all seriousness they harbored the opinion that the army would
again become what it had been, to wit, a stronghold of German military power;
while the Center and Marxism planned only to tear out its dangerous national
poison fang, without which, however, an army remains forever a police force,
but is not a troop capable of fighting an enemy-as has been amply proved
in the time that followed.Or did our 'national politicians' believe that the development
of the army could have been other than national? That would have been confoundedly
like the gentlemen and is what comes of not being a soldier in war but a
big-mouth; in other words, a parliamentarian with no notion of what goes
on in the hearts of men who are reminded by the most colossal past that
they were once the best soldiers in the world.And so I decided to attend the above-mentioned meeting of this
party which up till then had been entirely unknown to me too.In the evening when I entered the 'Leiber Room' of the former
Sterneckerbrau in Munich, I found some twenty to twenty-five people present,
chiefly from the lower classes of the population.
Feder's lecture was known to me from the courses, so I was able to devote
myself to an inspection of the organization itself.
My impression was neither good nor bad; a new organization like so many
others. This was a time in which anyone who was not satisfied with developments
and no longer had any confidence in the existing parties felt called upon
to found a new party. Everywhere these organizations sprang out of the ground,
only to vanish silently after a time. The founders for the most part had
no idea what it means to make a party-let alone a movement out of a club.
And so these organizations nearly always stifle automatically in their absurd
philistinism.I judged the 'German Workers' Party' no differently. When Feder
finally stopped talking, I was happy. I had seen enough and wanted to leave
when the free discussion period, which was now announced, moved me to remain,
after all. But here, too everything seemed to run along insignificantly
until suddenly a 'professor' took the floor; he first questioned the soundness
of Feder's arguments and then-after Feder replied very well- suddenly appealed
to 'the facts,' but not without recommending most urgently that the young
party take up the 'separation' of Bavaria from 'Prussia' as a particularly
important programmatic point. With bold effrontery the man maintained that
in this case German-Austria would at once join Bavaria, that the peace would
then become much better, and more similar nonsense. At this point I could
not help demanding the floor and giving the learned gentleman my opinion
on this point-with the result that the previous speaker, even before I was
finished, left the hall like a wet poodle. As I spoke, the audience had
listened with astonished faces, and only as I was beginning to say good
night to the assemblage and go away did a man come leaping after me, introduce
himself (I had not quite understood his name), and press a little booklet
into my hand, apparently a political pamphlet, with the urgent request that
I read it.This was very agreeable to me, for now I had reason to hope
that I might become acquainted with this dull organization in a simpler
way, without having to attend any more such interesting meetings. Incidentally
this apparent worker had made a good impression on me. And with this I left
the hall.At that time I was still living in the barracks of the Second
Infantry Regiment in a little room that still very distinctly bore the traces
of the revolution. During the day I was out, mostly with the Forty-First
Rifle Regiment, or at meetings, or lectures in some other army unit, etc.
Only at night did I sleep in my quarters. Since I regularly woke up before
five o'clock in the morning, I had gotten in the habit of putting a few
left-overs or crusts of bread on the floor for the mice which amused themselves
in my little room, and watching the droll little beasts chasing around after
these choice morsels. I had known so much poverty in my life that I was
well able to imagine the hunger, and hence also the pleasure, of the little
creatures.At about five o'clock in the morning after this meeting, I thus
lay awake in my cot, watching the chase and bustle. Since I could no longer
fall asleep, I suddenly remembered the past evening and my mind fell on
the booklet which the worker had given me. I began to read. It was a little
pamphlet in which the author, this same worker, described how he had returned
to national thinking out of the Babel of Marxist and trade-unionist phrases;
hence also the title: My Political Awakening.l Once I had begun, I read
the little book through with interest; for it reflected a process similar
to the one which I myself had gone through twelve years before. Involuntarily
I saw my own development come to life before my eyes. In the course of the
day I reflected a few times on the matter and was finally about to put it
aside when, less than a week later, much to my surprise, I received a postcard
saying that I had been accepted in the German Workers' Party; I was requested
to express myself on the subject and for this purpose to attend a committee
meeting of this party on the following Wednesday.I must admit that I was astonished at this way of 'winning'
members and I didn't know whether to be angry or to laugh. I had no intention
of joining a ready-made party, but wanted to found one of my own. What they
asked of me was presumptuous and out of the question.I was about to send the gentlemen my answer in writing when
curiosity won out and I decided to appear on the appointed day to explain
my reasons by word of mouth.Wednesday came. The tavern in which the said meeting was to
take place was the 'Aites Rosenbad' in the Herrenstrasse, a very run-down
place that no one seemed to stray into more than once in a blue moon. No
wonder, in the year 1919 when the menu of even the larger restaurants could
offer only the scantiest and most modest allurements. Up to this time this
tavern had been totally unknown to me.I went through the ill-lit dining room in which not a soul was
sitting, opened the door to the back room, and the 'session' was before
me. In the dim light of a broken-down gas lamp four young people sat at
a table, among them the author of the little pamphlet, who at once greeted
me most joyfully and bade me welcome as a new member of the German Workers'
PartyReally, I was somewhat taken aback. As I was now informed that
the actual 'national chairman' had not yet arrived, I decided to wait with
my declaration. This gentleman finally appeared. It was the same who had
presided at the meeting in the Sterneckerbrau on the occasion of Feder's
lectureMeanwhile, I had again become very curious, and waited expectantly
for what was to come. Now at least I came to know the names of the individual
gentlemen. The chairman of the 'national organization' was a Herr Harrer,
that of the Munich District, Anton Drexler.The minutes of the last meeting were read and the secretary
was given a vote of confidence. Next came the treasury report- all in all
the association possessed seven marks and fifty pfennigs &shyp; for which
the treasurer received a vote of general confidence. This, too, was entered
in the minutes. Then the first chairman read the answers to a letter from
Kiel, one from Dusseldorf, and one from Berlin, and everyone expressed approval.
Next a report was given on the incoming mail: a letter from Berlin, one
from Dusseldorf and one from Kiel, whose arrival seemed to be received with
great satisfaction. This growing correspondence was interpreted as the best
and most visible sign of the spreading importance of the German Workers'
Party, and then-then there was a long deliberation with regard to the answers
to be made.Terrible, terrible! This was club life of the worst manner and
sort. Was I to join this organization?Next, new memberships were discussed; in other words, my capture
was taken up.I now began to ask questions-but, aside from a few directives,
there was nothing, no program, no leaflet, no printed matter at all, no
membership cards, not even a miserable rubber stamp, only obvious good faith
and good intentions.I had stopped smiling, for what was this if not a typical sign
of the complete helplessness and total despair of all existing parties,
their programs, their purposes, and their activity? The thing that drove
these few young people to activity that was outwardly so absurd was only
the emanation of their inner voice, which more instinctively than consciously
showed them that all parties up till then were suited neither for raising
up the German nation nor for curing its inner wounds. I quickly read the
typed 'directives' and in them I saw more seeking than knowledge. Much was
vague or unclear, much was missing, but nothing was present which could
not have passed as a sign of a struggling realization.I knew what these men felt: it was the longing for a new movement
which should be more than a party in the previous sense of the wold.That evening when I returned to the barracks I had formed my
judgment of this association.I was facing the hardest question of my life: should I join
or should I decline?Reason could advise me only to decline, but my feeling left
me no rest, and as often as I tried to remember the absurdity of this whole
club, my feeling argued for it.I was restless in the days that followed.I began to ponder back and forth. I had long been resolved to
engage in political activity; that this could be done only in a new movement
was likewise clear to me, only the impetus to act had hitherto been lacking.
I am not one of those people who begin something today and lay it down tomorrow,
if possible taking up something else again. This very conviction among others
was the main reason why it was so hard for me to make up my mind to join
such a new organization. I knew that for me a decision would be for good,
with no turning back. For me it was no passing game but grim earnest. Even
then I had an instinctive revulsion toward men who start everything and
never carry anything out These jacks-of-all-trades were loathsome to me.
I regarded the activity of such people as worse than doing nothing.And this way of thinking constituted one of the main reasons
why I could not make up my mind as easily as some others do to found a cause
which either had to become everything or else would do better not to exist
at all.Fate itself now seemed to give me a hint. I should never have
gone into one of the existing large parties, and later on I shall go into
the reasons for this more closely. This absurd little organization with
its few members seemed to me to possess the one advantage that it had not
frozen into an 'organization,' but left the individual an opportunity for
real personal activity. Here it was still possible to work, and the smaller
the movement, the more readily it could be put into the proper form. Here
the content, the goal, and the road could still be determined, which in
the existing great parties was impossible from the outset.The longer I tried to think it over, the more the conviction
grew in me that through just such a little movement the rise of the nation
could some day be organized, but never through the political parliamentary
parties which clung far too greatly to the old conceptions or even shared
in the profits of the new regime. For it was a new philosophy and not a
new election slogan that had to be proclaimed.Truly a very grave decision-to begin transforming this intention
into reality!What prerequisites did I myself bring to this task?That I was poor and without means seemed to me the most bearable
part of it, but it was harder that I was numbered among the nameless, that
I was one of the millions whom chance permits to live or summons out of
existence without even their closest neighbors condescending to take any
notice of it. In addition, there was the difficulty which inevitably arose
from my lack of schooling.The so called 'intelligentsia' always looks down with a really
limitless condescension on anyone who has not been dragged through the obligatory
schools and had the necessary knowledge pumped into him. The question has
never been: What are the man's abilities? but: What has he learned? To these
'educated' people the biggest empty-head, if he is wrapped in enough diplomas,
is worth more than the brightest boy who happens to lack these costly envelopes.
And so it was easy for me to imagine how this ' educated ' world would confront
me, and in this I erred only in so far as even then I still regarded people
as better than in cold reality they for the most part unfortunately are.
As they are, to be sure, the exceptions, as everywhere else, shine all the
more brightly. Thereby, however, I learned always to distinguish between
the eternal students and the men of real ability.After two days of agonized pondering and reflection, I finally
came to the conviction that I had to take this step.It was the most decisive resolve of my life. From here there
was and could be no turning back.And so I registered as a member of the German Workers' Party
and received a provisional membership card with the number 7.


THE EXTENT of the fall of a body is always measured by the distance
between its momentary position and the one it originally occupied. The same
is true of nations and states. A decisive significance must be ascribed
to their previous position or rather elevation. Only what is accustomed
to rise above the common limit can fall and crash to a manifest low This
is what makes the collapse of the Reich so hard and terrible for every thinking
and feeling man, since it brought a crash from heights which today, in view
of the depths of our present degradation, are scarcely conceivable.The very founding of the Reich seemed gilded by the magic of
an event which uplifted the entire nation. After a series of incomparable
victories, a Reich was born for the sons and grandsons-a reward for immortal
heroism. Whether consciously or unconsciously, it matters not, the Germans
all had the feeling that this Reich, which did not owe its existence to
the trickery of parliamentary fractions, towered above the measure of other
states by the very exalted manner of its founding; for not in the cackling
of a parliamentary battle of words, but in the thunder and rumbling of the
front surrounding Paris was the solemn act performed: a proclamation of
our will, declaring that the Germans, princes and people, were resolved
in the future to constitute a Reich and once again to raise the imperial
crown to symbolic heights. And this was not done by cowardly murder; no
deserters and slackers were the founders of the Bismarckian state, but the
regiments at the front.This unique birth and baptism of fire in themselves surrounded
the Reich with a halo of historic glory such as only the oldest states-and
they but seldom-could boast.And what an ascent now began!Freedom on the outside provided daily bread within. The nation
became rich in numbers and earthly goods. The honor of the state, and with
it that of the whole people, was protected and shielded by an army which
could point most visibly to the difference from the former German Union.So deep is the downfall of the Reich and the German people that
everyone, as though seized by dizziness, seems to have lost feeling and
consciousness; people can scarcely remember the former height, so dreamlike
and unreal do the old greatness and glory seem compared to our present-day
misery Thus it is understandable that people are so blinded by the sublime
that they forget to look for the omens of the gigantic collapse which must
after all have been somehow present.Of course, this applies only to those for whom Germany was more
than a mere stop-over for making and spending money, since they alone can
feel the present condition as a collapse, while to the others it is the
long-desired fulfillment of their hitherto unsatisfied desires.The omens were then present and visible, though but very few
attempted to draw a certain lesson from them.Yet today this is more necessary than ever.The cure of a sickness can only be achieved if its cause is
known, and the same is true of curing political evils. To be sure, the outward
form of a sickness, its symptom which strikes the eye, is easier to see
and discover than the inner cause. And this is the reason why so many people
never go beyond the recognition of external effects and even confuse them
with the cause, attempting, indeed, to deny the existence of the latter.
Thus most of us primarily see the German collapse only in the general economic
misery and the consequences arising therefrom. Nearly every one of us must
personally suffer these-a cogent ground for every individual to understand
the catastrophe. Much less does the great mass see the collapse in its political,
cultural, ethical, and moral aspect. In this the feeling and understanding
of many fail completely.That this should be so among the broad masses may still pass,
but for even the circles of the intelligentsia to regard the German collapse
as primarily an 'economic catastrophe,' which can therefore be cured by
economic means, is one of the reasons why a recovery has hitherto been impossible.
Only when it is understood that here, too, economics is only of second or
third-rate importance, and the primary role falls to factors of politics,
ethics, morality, and blood, will we arrive at an understanding of the present
calamity, and thus also be able to find the ways and means for a cure.The question of the causes of the German collapse is, therefore,
of decisive importance, particularly for a political movement whose very
goal is supposed to be to quell the defeat.
But, in such research into the past, we must be very careful not to confuse
the more conspicuous effects with the less visible causes.The easiest and hence most widespread explanation of the present
misfortune is that it was brought about by the consequences of the lost
War and that therefore the War is the cause of the present evil.There may be many who will seriously believe this nonsense but
there are still more from whose mouth such an explanation can only be a
lie and conscious falsehood. This last applies to all those who today feed
at the government's cribs. For didn't the prophets of the revolution again
and again point out most urgently to the people that it was a matter of
complete indifference to the broad masses how this War turned out? Did they
not, on the contrary, gravely assure us that at most the 'big capitalist'
could have an interest in a victorious end of the gigantic struggle of nations,
but never the German people as such, let alone the German worker? Indeed,
didn't these apostles of world conciliation maintain the exact opposite:
didn't they say that by a German defeat 'militarism' would be destroyed,
but that the German nation would celebrate its most glorious resurrection?
Didn't these circles glorify the benevolence of the Entente, and didn't
they shove tile blame for the whole bloody struggle on Germany? And could
they have done this without declaring that even military defeat would be
without special consequences for the nation? Wasn't the whole revolution
embroidered with the phrase that it would prevent the victory of the German
flag, but that through it the German people would at last begin advancing
toward freedom at home and abroad?Will you claim that this was not so, you wretched, lying scoundrels?It takes a truly Jewish effrontery to attribute the blame for
the collapse solely to the military defeat when the central organ of all
traitors to the nation, the Berlin Vorwarts, wrote that this time the German
people must not bring its banner home victorious!And now this is supposed to be the cause of our collapse?Of course, it would be perfectly futile to fight with such forgetful
liars. I wouldn't waste my words on them if unfortunately this nonsense
were not parroted by so many thoughtless people, who do not seem inspired
by malice or conscious insincerity. Furthermore, these discussions are intended
to give our propaganda fighters an instrument which is very much needed
at a time when the spoken word is often twisted in our mouths.Thus we have the following to say to the assertion that the
lost War is responsible for the German collapse:Certainly the loss of the War was of terrible importance for
the future of our fatherland; however, its loss is not a cause, but itself
only a consequence of causes. It was perfectly clear to everyone with insight
and without malice that an unfortunate end of this struggle for life and
death would inevitably lead to extremely devastating consequences. But unfortunately
there were also people who seemed to lack this insight at the right time
or who, contrary to their better knowledge, contested and denied this truth.
Such for the most part were those who, after the fulfillment of their secret
wish, suddenly and belatedly became aware of the catastrophe which had been
brought about by themselves among others. They are guilty of the collapse-not
the lost War as it suddenly pleases them to say and believe. For its loss
was, after all, only the consequence of their activity and not, as they
now try to say, the result of 'bad' leadership. The foe did not consist
of cowards either; he, too, knew how to die. His number from the first day
was greater than that of the German army for he could draw on the technical
armament and the arsenals of the whole world; hence the German victories,
won for four years against a whole world, must regardless of all heroic
courage and 'organization,' be attributed solely to superior leadership,
and this iS a fact which cannot be denied out of existence. The organization
and leadership of the German army were the mightiest that the earth had
ever seen. Their deficiencies lay in the limits of all human adequacy in
general.The collapse of this army was not the cause of our present-day
misfortune, but only the consequence of other crimes, a consequence which
itself again, it must be admitted, ushered in the beginning of a further
and this time visible collapse.The truth of this can be seen from the following:Must a military defeat lead to so complete a collapse of a nation
and a state? Since when is this the result of an unfortunate war? Do peoples
perish in consequence of lost wars as such?The answer to this can be very brief: always, when military
defeat iS the payment meted out to peoples for their inner rottenness, cowardice,
lack of character, in short, unworthiness. If this iS not the case, the
military defeat will rather be the inspiration of a great future resurrection
than the tombstone of a national existence.History offers innumerable examples for the truth of this assertion.Unfortunately, the military defeat of the German people is not
an undeserved catastrophe, but the deserved chastisement of eternal retribution.
We more than deserved this defeat. It is only the greatest outward symptom
of decay amid a whole series of inner symptoms, which perhaps had remained
hidden and invisible to the eyes of most people, or which like ostriches
people did not want to see.Just consider the attendant circumstances amid which the German
people accepted this defeat. Didn't many circles express the most shameless
joy at the misfortune of the fatherland? And who would do such a thing if
he does not really deserve such a punishment? Why, didn't they go even further
and brag of having finally caused the front to waver? And it was not the
enemy that did this-no, no, it was Germans who poured such disgrace upon
their heads! Can it be said that misfortune struck them unjustly? Since
when do people step forward and take the guilt for a war on themselves?
And against better knowledge and better judgment!No, and again no. In the way in which the German people received
its defeat, we can recognize most clearly that the true cause of our collapse
must be sought in an entirely different place from the purely military loss
of a few positions or in the failure of an offensive; for if the front as
such had really flagged and if its downfall had really encompassed the doom
of the fatherland, the German people would have received the defeat quite
differently. Then they would have borne the ensuing misfortune with gritted
teeth or would have mourned it, overpowered by grief; then all hearts would
have been filled with rage and anger toward the enemy who had become victorious
through a trick of chance or the will of fate; then, like the Roman Senate,
the nation would have received the defeated divisions with the thanks of
the fatherland for the sacrifices they had made and besought them not to
despair of the Reich. The capitulation would have been signed only with
the reason, while the heart even then would have beaten for the resurrection
to come.This is how a defeat for which only fate was responsible would
have been received. Then people would not have laughed and danced, they
would not have boasted of cowardice and glorified the defeat, they would
not have scoffed at the embattled troops and dragged their banner and cockade
in the mud. But above all: then we should never have had the terrible state
of affairs which prompted a British officer, Colonel Repington, to make
the contemptuous statement: 'Of the Germans, every third man is a traitor.'
No, this plague would never have been able to rise into the stifling flood
which for five years now has been drowning the very last remnant of respect
for us on the part of the rest of the world.This most of all shows the assertion that the lost War was the
cause of the German collapse to be a lie. No, this military collapse was
itself only the consequence of a large number of symptoms of disease and
their causes, which even in peacetime were with the German nation. This
was the first consequence, catastrophic and visible to all, of an ethical
and moral poisoning, of a diminution in the instinct of self-preservation
and its preconditions, which for many years had begun to undermine the foundations
of the people and the Reich.It required the whole bottomless falsehood of the Jews and their
Marxist fighting organization to lay the blame for the collapse on that
very man who alone, with superhuman energy and will power, tried to prevent
the catastrophe he foresaw and save the nation from its time of deepest
humiliation and disgrace By branding Ludendorff as guilty for the loss of
the World War they took the weapon of moral right from the one dangerous
accuser who could have risen against the traitors to the fatherland. In
this they proceeded on the sound principle that the magnitude of a lie always
contains a certain factor of credibility, since the great masses of the
people in the very bottom of their hearts tend to be corrupted rather than
consciously and purposely evil, and that, therefore, in view of the primitive
simplicity of their minds they more easily fall a victim to a big lie than
to a little one, since they themselves lie in little things, but would be
ashamed of lies that were too big. Such a falsehood will never enter their
heads and they will not be able to believe in the possibility of such monstrous
effrontery and infamous misrepresentation in others; yes, even when enlightened
on the subject, they will long doubt and waver, and continue to accept at
least one of these causes as true. Therefore, something of even the most
insolent lie will always remain and stick-a fact which all the great lie-virtuosi
and lying-clubs in this world know only too well and also make the most
treacherous use of.The foremost connoisseurs of this truth regarding the possibilities
in the use of falsehood and slander have always been the Jews; for after
all, their whole existence is based on one single great lie, to wit, that
they are a religious community while actually they are a race-and what a
race ! One of the greatest minds of humanity has nailed them forever as
such in an eternally correct phrase of fundamental truth: he called them
'the great masters of the lie.' And anyone who does not recognize this or
does not want to believe it will never in this world be able to help the
truth to victory.
For the German people it must almost be considered a great good fortune
that its period of creeping sickness was suddenly cut short by so terrible
a catastrophe, for otherwise the nation would have gone to the dogs more
slowly perhaps, but all the more certainly. The disease would have become
chronic, while in the acute form of the collapse it at least became clearly
and distinctly recognizable to a considerable number of people. It was no
accident that man mastered the plague more easily than tuberculosis. The
one comes in terrible waves of death that shake humanity to the foundations,
the other slowly and stealthily; the one leads to terrible fear, the other
to gradual indifference. The consequence is that man opposed the one with
all the ruthlessness of his energy, while he tries to control consumption
with feeble means. Thus he mastered the plague, while tuberculosis masters
him.Exactly the same is true of diseases of national bodies. If
they do not take the form of catastrophe, man slowly begins to get accustomed
to them and at length, though it may take some time, perishes all the more
certainly of them. And so it is a good fortune-though a bitter one, to be
sure-when Fate resolves to take a hand in this slow process of putrefaction
and with a sudden blow makes the victim visualize the end of his disease.
For more than once, that is what such a catastrophe amounts to Then it can
easily become the cause of a recovery beginning with the utmost determination.But even in such a case, the prerequisite is again the recognition
of the inner grounds which cause the disease in question.Here, too, the most important thing remains the distinction
between the causes and the conditions they call forth. This will be all
the more difficult, the longer the toxins remain in the national body and
the more they become an ingredient of it which is taken for granted. For
it is easily possible that after a certain time unquestionably harmful poisons
Bill be regarded as an ingredient of one's own nation or at best will be
tolerated as a necessary evil, so that a search for the alien virus is no
longer regarded as necessary.Thus, in the long peace of the pre-War years, certain harmful
features had appeared and been recognized as such, though next to nothing
was done against their virus, aside from a few exceptions. And here again
these exceptions were primarily manifestations of economic life, which struck
the consciousness of the individual more strongly than the harmful features
in a number of other fields.There were many symptoms of decay which should have aroused
serious reflection.With respect to economics, the following should be said:Through the amazing increase in the German population before
the War, the question of providing the necessary daily bread stepped more
and more sharply into the foreground of all political and economic thought
and action. Unfortunately, those in power could not make up their minds
to choose the only correct solution, but thought they could reach their
goal in an easier way. When they renounced the acquisition of new soil and
replaced it by the lunacy of world economic conquest, the result was bound
to be an industrialization as boundless as it was harmful.The first consequence of gravest importance was the weakening
of the peasant class. Proportionately as the peasant class diminished, the
mass of the big city proletariat increased more and more, until finally
the balance was completely upset.Now the abrupt alternation between rich and poor became really
apparent. Abundance and poverty lived so close together that the saddest
consequences could and inevitably did arise. Poverty and frequent unemployment
began to play havoc with people, leaving behind them a memory of discontent
and embitterment. The consequence of this seemed to be political class division.
Despite all the economic prosperity, dissatisfaction became greater and
deeper; in fact, things came to such a pass that the conviction that 'it
can't go on like this much longer' became general, yet without people having
or being able to have any definite idea of what ought to have been done.These were the typical symptoms of deep discontent which sought
to express themselves in this way.But worse than this were other consequences induced by the economization
of the nation.In proportion as economic life grew to be the dominant mistress
of the state, money became the god whom all had to serve and to whom each
man had to bow down. More and more, the gods of heaven were put into the
corner as obsolete and outmoded, and in their stead incense was burned to
the idol Mammon. A truly malignant degeneration set in; what made it most
malignant was that it began at a time when the nation, in a presumably menacing
and critical hour, needed the highest heroic attitude. Germany had to accustom
herself to the idea that some day her attempt to secure her daily bread
by means of 'peaceful economic labor' would have to be defended by the sword.Unfortunately, the domination of money was sanctioned even by
that authority which should have most opposed it: His Majesty the Kaiser
acted most unfortunately by drawing the aristocracy into the orbit of the
new finance capital. It must be said to his credit, however, that unfortunately
even Bismarck himself did not recognize the menacing danger in this respect.
Thereby the ideal virtues for all practical purposes had taken a position
second to the value of money, for it was clear that once a beginning had
been made in this direction, the aristocracy of the sword would in a short
time inevitably be overshadowed by the financial aristocracy. Financial
operations succeed more easily than battles. It was no longer inviting for
the real hero or statesman to be brought into relations with some old bank
Jew: the man of true ment could no longer have an interest in the bestowal
of cheap decorations; he declined them with thanks. But regarded purely
from the standpoint of blood, such a development was profoundly unfortunate:
more and more, the nobility lost the racial basis for its existence, and
in large measure the designation of 'ignobility' would have been more suitable
for it.A grave economic symptom of decay was the slow disappearance
of the right of private property, and the gradual transference of the entire
economy to the ownership of stock companies.Now for the first time labor had sunk to the level of an object
of speculation for unscrupulous Jewish business men; the alienation of property
from the wage-worker was increased ad infinitum. The stock exchange began
to triumph and prepared slowly but surely to take the life of the nation
into its guardianship and control.The internationalization of the German economic life had been
begun even before the War through the medium of stock issues To be sure,
a part of German industry still attempted with resolution to ward off this
fate. At length, however, it, too, fell a victim to the united attack of
greedy finance capital which carried on this fight, with the special help
of its most faithful comrade, the Marxist movement.The lasting war against German 'heavy industry' was the visible
beginning of the internationalization of German economy toward which Marxism
was striving, though this could not be carried to its ultimate end until
the victory of Marxism and the revolution. While I am writing these words,
the general attack against the German state railways has finally succeeded,
and they are now being handed over to international finance capitals 'International'
Social Democracy has thus realized one of its highest goals.How far this 'economization' of the German people had succeeded
is most visible in the fact that after the War one of the leading heads
of German industry, and above all of commerce, was finally able to express
the opinion that economic effort as such was alone in a position to re-establish
Germany. This nonsense was poured forth at a moment when France was primarily
bringing back the curriculum of her schools to humanistic foundations in
order to combat the error that the nation and the state owed their survival
to economics and not to eternal ideal values. These words pronounced by
a Stinnes created the most incredible confusion; they were picked up at
once, and with amazing rapidity became the leitmotif of all the quacks and
big-mouths that since the revolution Fate has let loose on Germany in the
capacity of 'statesmen.'One of the worst symptoms of decay in Germany of the pre-War
era was the steadily increasing habit of doing things by halves. This is
always a consequence of uncertainty on some matter and of the cowardice
resulting from this and other grounds. This disease was-further promoted
by education.German education before the War was afflicted with an extraordinary
number of weaknesses. It was extremely one-sided and adapted to breeding
pure 'knowledge,' with less attention to 'ability.' Even less emphasis was
laid on the development of the character of the individual-in so far as
this is possible; exceedingly little on the sense of joy in responsibility,
and none at all on the training of will and force of decision. Its results,
you may be sure, were not strong men, but compliant ' walking encyclopedias,'
as we Germans were generally looked upon and accordingly estimated before
the War. People liked the German because he was easy to make use of, but
respected him little, precisely because of his weakness of will. It was
not for nothing that more than almost any other people he was prone to lose
his nationality and fatherland. The lovely proverb, 'with hat in hand, he
travels all about the land,' tells the whole story.This compliance became really disastrous, however, when it determined
the sole form in which the monarch could be approached; that is, never to
contradict him, but agree to anything and everything that His Majesty condescends
to do. Precisely in this place was free, manly dignity most necessary; otherwise
the monarchic institution was one day bound to perish from all this crawling;
for crawling it was and nothing else! And only miserable crawlers and sneaks-in
short, all the decadents who have always felt more at ease around the highest
thrones than sincere, decent, honorable souls-can regard this as the sole
proper form of intercourse with the bearers of the crown! These 'most humble'
creatures, to be sure, despite all their humility before their master and
source of livelihood, have always demonstrated the greatest arrogance toward
the rest of humanity, and worst of all when they pass themselves off with
shameful effrontery on their sinful fellow men as the only 'monarchists';
this is real gall such as only these ennobled or even unennobled tapeworms
are capable of! For in reality these people remained the gravediggers of
the monarchy and particularly the monarchistic idea. Nothing else is conceivable:
a man who is prepared to stand up for a cause will never and can never be
a sneak and a spineless lickspittle. Anyone who is really serious about
the preservation and furtherance of an institution will cling to it with
the last fiber of his heart and will not be able to abandon it if evils
of some sort appear in this institution. To be sure, he will not cry this
out to the whole public as the democratic 'friends' of the monarchy did
in the exact same lying way; he will most earnestly warn and attempt to
influence His Majesty, the bearer of the crown himself. He will not and
must not adopt the attitude that His Majesty remains free to act according
to his own will anyway, even if this obviously must and will lead to a catastrophe,
but in such a case he will have to protect the monarchy against the monarch,
and this despite all perils. If the value of this institution lay in the
momentary person of the monarch, it would be the worst institution that
can be imagined; for monarchs only in the rarest cases are the cream of
wisdom and reason or even of character, as some people like to claim. This
is believed only by professional lickspittles and sneaks, but all straightforward
men-and these remain the most valuable men in the state despite everything-
will only feel repelled by the idea of arguing such nonsense. For them history
remains history and the truth the truth even where monarchs are concerned.
No, the good fortune to possess a great monarch who is also a great man
falls to peoples so seldom that they must be content if the malice of Fate
abstains at least from the worst possible mistakes.Consequently, the value and importance of the monarchic idea
cannot reside in the person of the monarch himself except if Heaven decides
to lay the crown on the brow of a heroic genius like Frederick the Great
or a wise character like William I. This happens once in centuries and hardly
more often. Otherwise the idea takes precedence over the person and the
meaning of this institution must lie exclusively in the institution itself.
With this the monarch himself falls into the sphere of service. Then he,
too, becomes a mere cog in this work, to which he is obligated as such.
Then he, too, must comply with a higher purpose, and the ' monarchist' is
then no longer the man who in silence lets the bearer of the crown profane
it, but the man who prevents this. Otherwise, it would not be permissible
to depose an obviously insane prince, if the sense of the institution lay
not in the idea, but in the ' sanctified ' person at any price.Today it is really necessary to put this down, for in recent
times more and more of these creatures, to whose wretched attitude the collapse
of the monarchy must not least of all be attributed are rising out of obscurity.
With a certain naive gall, these people have started in again to speak of
nothing but 'their King'- whom only a few years ago they left in the lurch
in the critical hour and in the most despicable fashion-and are beginning
to represent every person who is not willing to agree to their lying tirades
as a bad German. And in reality they are the very same poltroons who in
1919 scattered and ran from every red armband, abandoned their King, in
a twinkling exchanged the halberd for the walking stick, put on noncommittal
neckties, and vanished without trace as peaceful ' citizens.' At one stroke
they were gone, these royal champions, and only after the revolutionary
storm, thanks to the activity of others, had subsided enough so that a man
could again roar his 'Hail, hail to the King' into the breezes, these 'servants
and counselors' of the crown began again cautiously to emerge. And now they
are all here again, looking back longingly to the fieshpots of Egypt; they
can hardly restrain themselves in their loyalty to the King and their urge
to do great things, until the day when again the first red arm-band will
appear, and the whole gang of ghosts profiting from the old monarchy will
again vanish like mice at the sight of a cat!If the monarchs were not themselves to blame for these things,
they could be most heartily pitied because of their present defenders. In
any case, they might as well know that with such knights a crown can be
lost, but no crowns gained.This servility, however, was a flaw in our whole education,
for which we suffered most terribly in this connection. For, as its consequence,
these wretched creatures were able to maintain themselves at all the courts
and gradually undermine the foundations of the monarchy. And when the structure
finally began to totter, they evaporated. Naturally: cringers and lickspittles
do not let themselves be knocked dead for their master. That monarchs never
know this and fail to learn it almost on principle has from time immemorial
been their undoing.One of the worst symptoms of decay was Mate increasing cowardice
in the face of responsibility, as well as the resultant halfheartedness
in all things.To be sure, the starting point of this plague in our country
lies in large part in the parliamentary institution in which irresponsibility
of the purest breed is cultivated. Unfortunately, this plague slowly spread
to all other domains of life, most strongly to state life. Everywhere responsibility
was evaded and inadequate half-measures were preferred as a result; for
in the use of such measures personal responsibility seems reduced to the
smallest dimensions.Just examine the attitude of the various governments toward
a number of truly injurious manifestations of our public life, and you will
easily recognize the terrible significance of this general half-heartedness
and cowardice in the face of responsibility.I shall take only a few cases from the mass of existing examples:Journalistic circles in particular like to describe the press
as a 'great power' in the state. As a matter of fact, its importance really
is immense. It cannot be overestimated, for the press really continues education
in adulthood.Its readers, by and large, can be divided into three groups:First, into those who believe everything they read;second, into those who have ceased to believe anything;third, into the minds which critically examine what they read,
and judge accordingly.Numerically, the first group is by far the largest. It consists
of the great mass of the people and consequently represents the simplest-minded
part of the nation. It cannot be listed in terms of professions, but at
most in general degrees of intelligence. To it belong all those who have
neither been born nor trained to think independently, and who partly from
incapacity and partly from incompetence believe everything that is set before
them in black and white. To them also belongs the type of lazybones who
could perfectly well think, but from sheer mental laziness seizes gratefully
on everything that someone else has thought, with the modest assumption
that the someone else has exerted himself considerably. Now, with all these
types, who constitute the great masses, the influence of the press will
be enormous. They are not able or willing themselves to examine what is
set before them, and as a result their whole attitude toward all the problems
of the day can be reduced almost exclusively to the outside influence of
others. This can be advantageous when their enlightenment is provided by
a serious and truth-loving party, but it is catastrophic when scoundrels
and liars provide it.The second group is much smaller in number. It is partly composed
of elements which previously belonged to the first group, but after long
and bitter disappointments shifted to the opposite and no longer believe
anything that comes before their eyes in print. They hate every newspaper;
either they don't read it at all, or without exception fly into a rage over
the contents, since in their opinion they consist only of lies and falsehoods.
These people are very hard to handle, since they are suspicious even in
the face of the truth. Consequently, they are lost for all positive, political
work.The third group, finally, is by far the smallest; it consists
of the minds with real mental subtlety, whom natural gifts and education
have taught to think independently, who try to form their own judgment on
all things, and who subject everything they read to a thorough examination
and further development of their own. They will not look at a newspaper
without always collaborating in their minds, and the writer has no easy
time of it. Journalists love such readers with the greatest reserve.
For the members of this third group, it must be admitted, the nonsense that
newspaper scribblers can put down is not very dangerous or even very important.
Most of them in the course of their lives have learned to regard every journalist
as a rascal on principle, who tells the truth only once in a blue moon.
Unfortunately, however, the importance of these splendid people lies only
in their intelligence and not in their number- a misfortune at a time when
wisdom is nothing and the majority is everything! Today, when the ballot
of the masses decides, the chief weight lies with the most numerous group,
and this is the first: the mob of the simple or credulous.It is of paramount interest to the state and the nation to prevent
these people from falling into the hands of bad, ignorant, or even vicious
educators. The state, therefore, has the duty of watching over their education
and preventing any mischief. It must particularly exercise strict control
over the press; for its influence on these people is by far the strongest
and most penetrating, since it is applied, not once in a while, but over
and over again. In the uniformity and constant repetition of this instruction
lies its tremendous power. If anywhere, therefore, it is here that the state
must not forget that all means must serve an end; it must not let itself
be confused by the drivel about so-called 'freedom of the press' and let
itself be talked into neglecting its duty and denying the nation the food
which it needs and which is good for it; with ruthless determination it
must make sure of this instrument of popular education, and place it in
the service of the state and the nation.But what food did the German press of the pre-War period dish
out to the people? Was it not the worst poison that can even be imagined?
Wasn't the worst kind of pacifism injected into the heart of our people
at a time when the rest of the world was preparing to throttle Germany,
slowly but surely? Even in peacetime didn't the press inspire the minds
of the people with doubt in the right of their own state, thus from the
outset limiting them in the choice of means for its defense? Was it not
the German press which knew how to make the absurdity of 'Western democracy'
palatable to our people until finally, ensnared by all the enthusiastic
tirades, they thought they could entrust their future to a League of Nations?
Did it not help to teach our people a miserable immorality? Did it not ridicule
morality and ethics as backward and petty-bourgeois, until our people finally
became 'modern'? Did it not with its constant attacks undermine the foundations
of the state's authority until a single thrust sufficed to make the edifice
collapse? Did it not fight with all possible means against every effort
to give unto the state that which is the state's? Did it not belittle the
army with constant criticism, sabotage universal conscription, demand the
refusal of military credits, etc., until the result became inevitable?The so-called liberal press was actively engaged in digging
the grave of the German people and the German Reich. We can pass by the
lying Marxist sheets in silence; to them lying is just as vitally necessary
as catching mice for a cat; their function is only to break the people's
national and patriotic backbone and make them ripe for the slave's yoke
of international capital and its masters, the Jews.And what did the state do against this mass poisoning of the
nation? Nothing, absolutely nothing. A few ridiculous decrees, a few fines
for villainy that went too far, and that was the end of it. Instead, they
hoped to curry favor with this plague by flattery, by recognition of the
'value' of the press, its 'importance,' its 'educational mission,' and more
such nonsense-as for the Jews, they took all this with a crafty smile and
acknowledged it with sly thanks.The reason, however, for this disgraceful failure on the part
of the state was not that it did not recognize the danger, but rather in
a cowardice crying to high Heaven and the resultant halfheartedness of all
decisions and measures. No one had the courage to use thoroughgoing radical
methods, but in this as in everything else they tinkered about with a lot
of halfway prescriptions, and instead of carrying the thrust to the heart,
they at most irritated the viper-with the result that not only did everything
remain as before, but on the contrary the power of the institutions which
should have been combated increased from year to year.The defensive struggle of the German government at that time
against the press-mainly that of Jewish origin-which was slowly ruining
the nation was without any straight line, irresolute and above all without
any visible goal. The intelligence of the privy councilors failed completely
when it came to estimating the importance of this struggle, to choosing
means or drawing up a clear plan. Planlessly they fiddled about; sometimes,
after being bitten too badly, they locked up one of the journalistic vipers
for a few weeks or months, but they left the snakes' nest as such perfectly
unmolested.True-this resulted partly from the infinitely wily tactics of
the Jews, on the one hand, and from a stupidity and innocence such as only
privy councilors are capable of, on the other. The Jew was much too clever
to allow his entire press to be attacked uniformly. No, one part of it existed
in order to cover the other. While the Marxist papers assailed in the most
dastardly way everything that can be holy to man; while they infamously
attacked the state and the government and stirred up large sections of the
people against one another, the bourgeois-democratic papers knew how to
give an appearance of their famous objectivity, painstakingly avoided all
strong words, well knowing that empty heads can judge only by externals
and never have the faculty of penetrating the inner core, so that for them
the value of a thing is measured by this exterior instead of by the content;
a human weakness to which they owe what esteem they themselves enjoy.For these people the Frankfurter Zeitung was the embodiment
of respectability. For it never uses coarse expressions, it rejects all
physical brutality and keeps appealing for struggle with 'intellectual'
weapons, a conception, strange to say, to which especially the least intelligent
people are most attached. This is a result of our half-education which removes
people from the instinct of Nature and pumps a certain amount of knowledge
into them, but cannot create full understanding, since for this industry
and good will alone are no use; the necessary intelligence must be present,
and what is more, it must be inborn. The ultimate wisdom is always the understanding
of the instinct '-that is: a man must never fall into the lunacy of believing
that he has really risen to be lord and master of Nature-which is so easily
induced by the conceit of half-education; he must understand the fundamental
necessity of Nature's rule, and realize how much his existence is subjected
to these laws of eternal fight and upward struggle. Then he will feel that
in a universe where planets revolve around suns, and moons turn about planets,
where force alone forever masters weakness, compelling it to be an obedient
slave or else crushing it, there can be no special laws for man. For him,
too, the eternal principles of this ultimate wisdom hold sway. He can try
to comprehend them; but escape them, never.And it is precisely for our intellectual demi-monde that the
Jew writes his so-called intellectual press. For them the Frankfurter Zeitung
and the Berliner Tageblatt are made; for them their tone is chosen, and
on them they exercise their influence. Seemingly they all most sedulously
avoid any outwardly crude forms, and meanwhile from other vessels they nevertheless
pour their poison into the hearts of their readers. Amid a Gezeires 2 Of
fine sounds and phrases they lull their readers into believing that pure
science or even morality is really the motive of their acts, while in reality
it is nothing but a wily, ingenious trick for stealing the enemy's weapon
against the press from under his nose. The one variety oozes respectability,
so all soft-heads are ready to believe them when they say that the faults
of others are only trivial abuses which should never lead to an infringement
of the 'freedom of the press'-their term for poisoning and lying to the
people. And so the authorities shy away from taking measures against these
bandits, for they fear that, if they did, they would at once have the '
respectable ' press against them, a fear which is only too justified. For
as soon as they attempt to proceed against one of these shameful rags, all
the others will at once take its part, but by no means to sanction its mode
of struggle, God forbid-but only to defend the principle of freedom of the
press and freedom of public opinion; these alone must be defended. But in
the face of all this shouting, the strongest men grow weak, for does it
not issue from the mouths of 'respectable' papers?This poison was able to penetrate the bloodstream of our people
unhindered and do its work, and the state did not possess the power to master
the disease. In the laughable half-measures which it used against the poison,
the menacing decay of the Reich was manifest. For an institution which is
no longer resolved to defend itself with all weapons has for practical purposes
abdicated. Every half-measure is a visible sign of inner decay which must
and will be followed sooner or later by outward collapse.I believe that the present generation, properly led, will more
easily master this danger. It has experienced various things which had the
power somewhat to strengthen the nerves of those who did not lose them entirely.
In future days the Jew will certainly continue to raise a mighty uproar
in his newspapers if a hand is ever laid on his favorite nest, if an end
is put to the mischief of the press and this instrument of education is
put into the service of the state and no longer left in the hands of aliens
and enemies of the people. But I believe that this will bother us younger
men less than our fathers. A thirty-centimeter shell has always hissed more
loudly than a thousand Jewish newspaper vipers-so let them hiss!A further example of the halfheartedness and weakness of
the leaders of pre-War Germany in meeting the most important vital questions
of the nation is the following: running parallel to the political, ethical,
and moral contamination of the people, there had been for many years a no
less terrible poisoning of the health of the national body. Especially in
the big cities, syphilis was beginning to spread more and more, while tuberculosis
steadily reaped its harvest of death throughout nearly the whole country.Though in both cases the consequences were terrible for the
nation, the authorities could not summon up the energy to take
decisive measures.Particularly with regard to syphilis, the attitude of the leadership
of the nation and the state can only be designated as total capitulation.
To fight it seriously, they would have had to take somewhat broader measures
than was actually the case. The invention of a remedy of questionable character
and its commercial exploitation can no longer help much against this plague.
Here again it was only the fight against causes that mattered and not the
elimination of the symptoms. The cause lies, primarily, in our prostitution
of love. Even if its result were not this frightful plague, it would nevertheless
be profoundly injurious to man, since the moral devastations which accompany
this degeneracy suffice to destroy a people slowly but surely. This Jewification
of our spiritual life and mammonization of our mating instinct will sooner
or later destroy our entire offspring, for the powerful children of a natural
emotion will be replaced by the miserable creatures of financial expediency
which is becoming more and more the basis and sole prerequisite of our marriages.
Love finds its outlet elsewhere.Here, too, of course, Nature can be scorned for a certain time,
but her vengeance will not fail to appear, only it takes a time to manifest
itself, or rather: it is often recognized too late by man.But the devastating consequences of a lasting disregard of the
natural requirements for marriage can be seen in our nobility. Here we have
before us the results of procreation based partly on purely social compulsion
and partly on financial grounds. The one leads to a general weakening, the
other to a poisoning of the blood, since every department store Jewess is
considered fit to augment the offspring of His Highness-and, indeed, the
offspring look it. In both cases complete degeneration is the consequence.Today our bourgeoisie strive to go the same road, and they will
end up at the same goal.Hastily and indifferently, people tried to pass by the unpleasant
truths, as though by such an attitude events could be undone. No, the fact
that our big city population is growing more and more prostituted in its
love life cannot just be denied out of existence; it simply is so. The most
visible results of this mass contamination can, on the one hand, be found
in the insane asylums, and on the other, unfortunately, in our-children.
They in particular are the sad product of the irresistibly spreading contamination
of our sexual life; the vices of the parents are revealed in the sicknesses
of the children.There are different ways of reconciling oneself to this unpleasant,
yes, terrible fact: the ones see nothing at all or rather want to see nothing;
this, of course, is by far the simplest and easiest 'position.' The others
wrap themselves in a saint's cloak of prudishness as absurd as it is hypocritical;
they speak of this whole field as if it were a great sin, and above all
express their profound indignation against every sinner caught in the act,
then close their eyes in pious horror to this godless plague and pray God
to let sulphur and brimstone-preferably after their own death-rain down
on this whole Sodom and Gomorrah, thus once again making an instructive
example of this shameless humanity. The third, finally, are perfectly well
aware of the terrible consequences which this plague must and will some
day induce, but only shrug their shoulders, convinced that nothing can be
done against the menace, so the only thing to do is to let things slide.All this, to be sure, is comfortable and simple, but it must
not be forgotten that a nation will fall victim to such comfortableness.
The excuse that other peoples are no better off, it goes without saying,
can scarcely affect the fact of our own ruin, except that the feeling of
seeing others stricken by the same calamity might for many bring a mitigation
of their own pains. But then more than ever the question becomes: Which
people will be the first and only one to master this plague by its own strength,
and which nations will perish from it? And this is the crux of the whole
matter. Here again we have a touchstone of a race's value-the race which
cannot stand the test will simply die out, making place for healthier or
tougher and more resisting races. For since this question primarily regards
the offspring, it is one of those concerning which it is said with such
terrible justice that the sins of the fathers are avenged down to the tenth
generation. But this applies only to profanation of the blood and the race.Blood sin and desecration of the race are the original sin in
this world and the end of a humanity which surrenders to it.How truly wretched was the attitude of pre-War Germany on this
one very question ! What was done to check the contamination of our youth
in the big cities? What was done to attack the infection and mammonization
of our love life? What was done to combat the resulting syphilization of
our people?This can be answered most easily by stating what should have
been done.First of all, it was not permissible to take this question frivolously;
it had to be understood that the fortune or misfortune of generations would
depend on its solution; yes, that it could, if not had to be, decisive for
the entire future of our people. Such a realization, however, obligated
us to ruthless measures and surgical operations. What we needed most was
the conviction that first of all the whole attention of the nation had to
be concentrated upon this terrible danger, so that every single individual
could become inwardly conscious of the importance of this struggle. Truly
incisive and sometimes almost unbearable obligations and burdens can only
be made generally effective if, in addition to compulsion, the realization
of necessity is transmitted to the individual. But this requires a tremendous
enlightenment excluding all other problems of the day which might have a
distracting effect.In all cases where the fulfillment of apparently impossible
demand.s or tasks is involved, the whole attention of a people must be focused
and concentrated on this one question, as though life and death actually
depended on its solution. Only in this way will a people be made willing
and able to perform great tasks and exertions.This principle applies also to the individual man in so far
as he wants to achieve great goals. He, too, will be able to do this only
in steplike sections, and he, too, will always have to unite his entire
energies on the achievement of a definitely delimited task, until this task
seems fulfilled and a new section can be marked out. Anyone who does not
so divide the road to be conquered into separate stages and does not try
to conquer these one by one, systematically with the sharpest concentration
of all his forces, will never be able to reach the ultimate goal, but will
be left lying somewhere along the road, or perhaps even off it. This gradual
working up to a goal is an art, and to conquer the road step by step in
this way you must throw in your last ounce of energy.The very first prerequisite needed for attacking such a difficult
stretch of the human road is for the leadership to succeed in representing
to the masses of the people the partial goal which now has to be achieved,
or rather conquered, as the one which is solely and alone worthy of attention,
on whose conquest everything depends. The great mass of the people cannot
see the whole road ahead of them without growing weary and despairing of
the task. A certain number of them will keep the goal in mind, but will
only be able to see the road in small, partial stretches, like the wanderer,
who likewise knows and recognizes the end of his journey, but is better
able to conquer the endless highway if he divides it into sections and boldly
attacks each one as though it represented the desired goal itself. Only
in this way does he advance without losing heart.Thus, by the use of all propagandist means, the question of
combating syphilis should have been made to appear as the task of the nation.
Not just one more task. To this end, its injurious effects should have been
thoroughly hammered into people as the most terrible misfortune, and this
by the use of all available means, until the entire nation arrived at the
conviction that everything-future or ruin-depended upon the solution of
this question.Only after such a preparation, if necessary over a period of
years, will the attention, and consequently the determination, of the entire
nation be aroused to such an extent that we can take exceedingly hard measures
exacting the greatest sacrifices without running the risk of not being understood
or of suddenly being left in the lurch by the will of the masses.For, seriously to attack this plague, tremendous sacrifices
and equally great labors are necessary.The fight against syphilis demands a fight against prostitution
against prejudices, old habits, against previous conceptions, general views
among them not least the false prudery of certain circles.The first prerequisite for even the moral right to combat these
things is the facilitation of earlier marriage for the coming generation.
In late marriage alone lies the compulsion to retain an institution which,
twist and turn as you like, is and remains a disgrace to humanity, an institution
which is damned ill-suited to a being who with his usual modesty likes to
regard himself as the 'image' of God.Prostitution is a disgrace to humanity, but it cannot be eliminated
by moral lectures, pious intentions, etc.; its limitation and final abolition
presuppose the elimination of innumerable preconditions. The first is and
remains the creation of an opportunity for early marriage as compatible
with human nature- particularly for the man, as the woman in any case is
only the passive part.How lost, how incomprehensible a part of humanity has become
today can be seen from the fact that mothers in so-called 'good ' society
can not seldom be heard to say that they are glad to have found their child
a husband who has sown his wild oats, etc. Since there is hardly any lack
of these, but rather the contrary, the poor girl will be happy to find one
of these worn-out Siegfrieds, and the children will be the visible result
of this 'sensible' marriage. If we bear in mind that, aside from this, propagation
as such is limited as much as possible, so that Nature is prevented from
making any choice, since naturally every creature, regardless how miserable,
must be preserved, the only question that remains is why such an institution
exists at all any more and what purpose it is supposed to serve? Isn't it
exactly the same as prostitution itself? Hasn't duty toward posterity passed
completely out of the picture? Or do people fail to realize what a curse
on the part of their children and children's children they are heaping on
themselves by such criminal frivolity in observing the ultimate natural
law as well as our ultimate natural obligation?Thus, the civilized peoples degenerate and gradually perish.And marriage cannot be an end in itself, but must serve the
one higher goal, the increase and preservation of the species and the race.
This alone is its meaning and its task.Under these conditions its soundness can only be judged by the
way in which it fulfills this task. For this reason alone early marriage
is sound, for it-gives the young marriage that strength from which alone
a healthy and resistant offspring can arise. To be sure, it can be made
possible only by quite a number of social conditions without which early
marriage is not even thinkable. Therefore, a solution of this question,
small as it is, cannot occur without incisive measures of a social sort.
The importance of these should be most understandable at a time when the
'social' - republic, if only by its incompetence in the solution of the
housing question, simply prevents numerous marriages and thus encourages
prostitution.Our absurd way of regulating salaries, which concerns itself
much too little with the question of the family and its sustenance, is one
more reason that makes many an early marriage impossible.Thus, a real fight against prostitution can only be undertaken
if a basic change in social conditions makes possible an earlier marriage
than at present can generally take place. This is the very first premise
for a solution of this question.In the second place, education and training must eradicate a
number of evils about which today no one bothers at all. Above all, in our
present education a balance must be created between mental instruction and
physical training. The institution that is called a Gymnasium today is a
mockery of the Greek model. In our educational system it has been utterly
forgotten that in the long run a healthy mind can dwell only in a healthy
body. Especially if we bear in mind the mass of the people, aside from a
few exceptions, this statement becomes absolutely valid.In pre-War Germany there was a period in which no one concerned
himself in the least about this truth. They simply went on sinning against
the body and thought that in the one-sided training of the 'mind,' they
possessed a sure guaranty for the greatness of the nation. A mistake whose
consequences began to be felt sooner than was expected. It is no accident
that th Bolshevistic wave never found better soil than in places inhabited
by a population degenerated by hunger and constant undernourishment: in
Central Germany, Saxony, and the Ruhr. But in all these districts the so-called
intelligentsia no longer offers any serious resistance to this Jewish disease,
for the simple reason that this intelligentsia is itself completely degenerate
physically, though less for reasons of poverty than for reasons of education.
In times when not the mind but the fist decides, the purely intellectual
emphasis of our education in the upper classes makes them incapable of defending
themselves, let alone enforcing their will. Not infrequently the first reason
for personal cowardice lies in physical weaknesses.The excessive emphasis on purely intellectual instruction and
the neglect of physical training also encourage the emergence of sexual
ideas at a much too early age. The youth who achieves the hardness of iron
by sports and gymnastics succumbs to the need of sexual satisfaction less
than the stay-at-home fed exclusively on intellectual fare. And a sensible
system of education must bear this in mind. It must, moreover, not fail
to consider that the healthy young man will expect different things from
the woman than a prematurely corrupted weakling.Thus, the whole system of education must be so organized as
to use the boy's free time for the useful training of his body. He has no
right to hang about in idleness during these years, to make the streets
and movie-houses unsafe; after his day's work he should steel and harden
his young body, so that later life will not find him too soft. To begin
this and also carry it out, to direct and guide it, is the task of education,
and not just the pumping of so-called wisdom. We must also do away with
the conception that the treatment of the body is the affair of every individual.
There is no freedom to sin at the cost of posterity and hence of the race.Parallel to the training of the body, a struggle against the
poisoning of the soul must begin. Our whole public life today is like a
hothouse for sexual ideas and stimulations. Just look at the bill of fare
served up in our movies, vaudeville and theaters, and you will hardly be
able to deny that this is not the right kind of food, particularly for the
youth. In shop windows and billboards the vilest means are used to attract
the attention of the crowd. Anyone who has not lost the ability to think
himself into their soul must realize that this must cause great damage in
the youth. This sensual, sultry atmosphere leads to ideas and stimulations
at a time when the boy should have no understanding of such things. The
result of this kind of education can be studied in present-day youth, and
it is not exactly gratifying. They mature too early and consequently grow
old before their time. Sometimes the public learns of court proceedings
which permit shattering insights into the emotional life of our fourteen-
and fifteen-year-olds. Who will be surprised that even in these age-groups
syphilis begins to seek its victims? And is it not deplorable to see a good
number of these physically weak, spiritually corrupted young men obtaining
their introduction to marriage through big-city whores?No, anyone who wants to attack prostitution must first of all
help to eliminate its spiritual basis. He must clear away the filth of the
moral plague of big-city ' civilization ' and he must do this ruthlessly
and without wavering in the face of all the shouting and screaming that
will naturally be let loose. If we do not lift the youth out of the morass
of their present-day environment, they will drown in it. Anyone who refuses
to see these things supports them, and thereby makes himself an accomplice
in the slow prostitution of our future which, whether we like it or not,
lies in the coming generation. This cleansing of our culture must be extended
to nearly all fields. Theater, art, literature, cinema, press, posters,
and window displays must be cleansed of all manifestations of our rotting
world and placed in the service of a moral political, and cultural idea.
Public life must be freed from the stifling perfume of our modern eroticism,
just as it must be freed from all unmanly, prudish hypocrisy. In all these
things the goal and the road must be determined by concern for the preservation
of the health of our people in body and soul. The right of personal freedom
recedes before the duty to preserve the race.Only after these measures are carried out can the medical struggle
against the plague itself be carried through with any prospect of success.
But here, too, there must be no half-measures; the gravest and most ruthless
decisions will have to be made. It is a half-measure to let incurably sick
people steadily contaminate the remaining healthy ones. This is in keeping
with the humanitarianism which, to avoid hurting one individual, lets a
hundred others perish. The demand that defective people be prevented from
propagating equally defective offspring is a demand of the clearest reason
and if systematically executed represents the most humane act of mankind.
It will spare millions of unfortunates undeserved sufferings, and consequently
will lead to a rising improvement of health as a whole. The determination
to proceed in this direction will oppose a dam to the further spread of
venereal diseases. For, if necessary, the incurably sick will be pitilessly
segregated-a barbaric measure for the unfortunate who is struck by it, but
a blessing for his fellow men and posterity. The passing pain of a century
can and will redeem millenniums from sufferings.The struggle against syphilis and the prostitution which prepares
the way for it is one of the most gigantic tasks of humanity, gigantic because
we are facing, not the solution of a single question, but the elimination
of a large number of evils which bring about this plague as a resultant
manifestation. For in this case the sickening of the body is only the consequence
of a sickening of the moral, social, and racial instincts.But if out of smugness, or even cowardice, this battle is not
fought to its end, then take a look at the peoples five hundred years from
now. I think you will find but few images of God, unless you want to profane
the Almighty.But how did they try to deal with this plague in old Germany?
Viewed calmly, the answer is really dismal. Assuredly, government circles
well recognized the terrible evils, though perhaps they were not quite able
to ponder the consequences; but in the struggle against it they failed totally,
and instead of thoroughgoing reforms preferred to take pitiful measures.
They tinkered with the disease and left the causes untouched. They submitted
the individual prostitute to a medical examination, supervised her as best
they could, and, in case they established disease, put her in some hospital
from which after a superficial cure they again let her loose on the rest
of humanity.To be sure, they had introduced a 'protective paragraph' according
to which anyone who was not entirely healthy or cured must avoid sexual
intercourse under penalty of the law. Surely this measure is sound in itself,
but in its practical application it was almost a total failure. In the first
place, the woman, in case she is smitten by misfortune-if only due to our,
or rather her, education-will in most cases refuse to be dragged into court
as a witness against the wretched thief of her health-often under the most
embarrassing attendant circumstances. She, in particular, has little to
gain from it; in most cases she will be the one to suffer most-for she will
be struck much harder by the contempt of her loveless fellow creatures than
would be the case with a man. Finally, imagine the situation if the conveyor
of the disease is her own husband. Should she accuse him? Or what else should
she do?In the case of the man, there is the additional fact that unfortunately
he often runs across the path of this plague after ample consumption of
alcohol, since in this condition he is least able to judge the qualities
of his 'fair one,' a fact which is only too well known to the diseased prostitute,
and always causes her to angle after men in this ideal condition. And the
upshot of it all is that the man who gets an unpleasant surprise later can,
even by thoroughly racking his brains, not remember his kind benefactress,
which should not be surprising in a city like Berlin or even Munich. In
addition, it must be considered that often we have to deal with visitors
from the provinces who are completely befuddled by all the magic of the
big city.Finally, however: who can know whether he is sick or healthy?
Are there not numerous cases in which a patient apparently cured relapses
and causes frightful mischief without himself suspecting it at first?Thus, the practical effect of this protection by legal punishment
of a guilty infection is in reality practically nil. Exactly the same is
true of the supervision of prostitutes; and finally, the cure itself, even
today, is dubious. Only one thing is certain: despite all measures the plague
spread more and more, giving striking confirmation of their ineffectualness.The fight against the prostitution of the people's soul was
a failure all along the line, or rather, that is, nothing at all was done.Let anyone who is inclined to take this lightly just study the
basic statistical facts on the dissemination of this plague, compare its
growth in the last hundred years, and then imagine its further development-and
he would really need the simplicity of an ass to keep an unpleasant shudder
from running down his back.The weakness and halfheartedness of the position taken in old
Germany toward so terrible a phenomenon may be evaluated as a visible sign
of a people's decay. If the power to fight for one's own health is no longer
present, the right to live in this world of struggle ends. This world belongs
only to the forceful 'whole' man and not to the weak 'half ' man.One of the most obvious manifestations of decay in the old Reich
was the slow decline of the cultural level, and by culture I do not mean
what today is designated by the word ' civilization.' The latter, on the
contrary, rather seems hostile to a truly high standard of thinking and
living.Even before the turn of the century an element began to intrude
into our art which up to that time could be regarded as entirely foreign
and unknown. To be sure, even in earlier times there were occasional aberrations
of taste, but such cases were rather artistic derailments, to which posterity
could attribute at least a certain historical value, than products no longer
of an artistic degeneration, but of a spiritual degeneration that had reached
the point of destroying the spirit. In them the political collapse, which
later became more visible, was culturally indicated.Art Bolshevism is the only possible cultural form and spiritual
expression of Bolshevism as a whole.Anyone to whom this seems strange need only subject the art
of the happily Bolshevized states to an examination, and, to his horror,
he will be confronted by the morbid excrescences of insane and degenerate
men, with which, since the turn of the century, we have become familiar
under the collective concepts of cubism and dadaism, as the official and
recognized art of those states. Even in the short period of the Bavarian
Republic of Councils, this phenomenon appeared. Even here it could be seen
that all the official posters, propagandist drawings in the newspapers,
etc., bore the imprint, not only of political but of cultural decay.No more than a political collapse of the present magnitude would
have been conceivable sixty years ago was a cultural collapse such as began
to manifest itself in futurist and cubist works since 1900 thinkable. Sixty
years ago an exhibition of so-called dadaistic 'experiences' would have
seemed simply impossible and its organizers would have ended up in the madhouse,
while today they even preside over art associations. This plague could not
appear at that time, because neither would public opinion have tolerated
it nor the state calmly looked on. For it is the business of the state,
in other words, of its leaders, to prevent a people from being driven into
the arms of spiritual madness. And this is where such a development would
some day inevitably end. For on the day when this type of art really corresponded
to the general view of things, one of the gravest transformations of humanity
would have occurred: the regressive development of the human mind would
have begun and the end would be scarcely conceivable.Once we pass the development of our cultural life in the last
twenty-five years in review from this standpoint, we shall be horrified
to see how far we are already engaged in this regression. Everywhere we
encounter seeds which represent the beginnings of parasitic growths which
must sooner or later be the ruin of our culture. In them, too, we can recognize
the symptoms of decay of a slowly rotting world. Woe to the peoples who
can no longer master this disease!Such diseases could be seen in Germany in nearly every field
of art and culture. Everything seemed to have passed the high point and
to be hastening toward the abyss. The theater was sinking manifestly lower
and even then would have disappeared completely as a cultural factor if
the Court Theaters at least had not turned against the prostitution of art.
If we disregard them and a few other praiseworthy examples, the offerings
of the stage were of such a nature that it would have been more profitable
for the nation to keep away from them entirely. It was a sad sign of inner
decay that the youth could no longer be sent into most of these so-called
' abodes of art '-a fact which was admitted with shameless frankness by
a general display of the penny-arcade warning: 'Young people are not admitted!'Bear in mind that such precautionary measures had to be taken
in the places which should have existed primarily for the education of the
youth and not for the delectation of old and jaded sections of the population.
What would the great dramatists of all times have said to such a regulation,
and what, above all, to the circumstances which caused it? How Schiller
would have flared up, how Goethe would have turned away in indignation!But after all, what are Schiller, Goethe, or Shakespeare compared
to the heroes of the newer German poetic art? Old, outworn, outmoded, nay,
obsolete. For that was the characteristic thing about that period: not that
the period itself produced nothing but filth, but that in the bargain it
befouled everything that was really great in the past. This, to be sure,
is a phenomenon that can always be observed at such times. The baser and
more contemptible the products of the time and its people, the Lore it hates
the witnesses to the greater nobility and dignity of a former day. In such
times the people would best like to efface the memory of mankind's past
completely, so that by excluding every possibility of comparison they could
pass off their own trash as 'art.' Hence every new institution, the more
wretched and miserable it is, will try all the harder to extinguish the
last traces of the past time, whereas every true renascence of humanity
can start with an easy mind from the good achievements of past generations;
in fact, can often make them truly appreciated for the first time. It does
not have to fear that it will pale before the past; no, of itself it contributes
so valuable an addition to the general store of human culture that often,
in order to make this culture fully appreciated, it strives to keep alive
the memory of former achievements, thus making sure that the present will
fully understand the new gift. Only those who can give nothing valuable
to the world, but try to act as if they were going to give it God knows
what, will hate everything that was previously gives and would best like
to negate or even destroy it.The truth of this is by no means limited to the field of general
culture, but applies to politics as well. Revolutionary new movements will
hate the old forms in proportion to their own inferiority. Here, too, we
can see how eagerness to make their own trash appear to be something noteworthy
leads to blind hatred against the superior good of the past. As long, for
example, as the historical memory of Frederick the Great is not dead, Friedrich
Ebert can arouse nothing but limited amazement. The hero of Sans-Souci is
to the former Bremen saloon keeper approximately as the sun to the moon;
only when the rays of the sun die can the moon shine. Consequently, the
hatred of all new moons of humanity for the fixed stars is only too comprehensible.
In political life, such nonentities, if Fate temporarily casts power in
their lap, not only besmirch and befoul the past with untiring zeal, but
also remove themselves from general criticism by the most extreme methods.
The new German Reich's legislation for the defense of the Republic may pass
as an example of this.Therefore, if any new idea, a doctrine, a new philosophy, or
even a political or economic movement tries to deny the entire past, tries
to make it bad or worthless, for this reason alone we must be extremely
cautious and suspicious. As a rule the reason for such hatred is either
its own inferiority or even an evil intention as such. A really beneficial
renascence of humanity will always have to continue building where the last
good foundation stops. It will not have to be ashamed of using already existing
truths. For the whole of human culture, as well as man himself is only the
result of a single long development in which every generation contributed
and fitted in its stone. Thus the meaning and purpose of revolutions is
not to tear down the whole building but to remove what is bad or unsuitable
and to continue building on the sound spot that has been laid bare.Thus alone can we and may we speak of the progress of humanity.
Otherwise the world would never be redeemed from chaos, since every generation
would be entitled to reject the past and hence destroy the works of the
past as the presupposition for its own work.Thus, the saddest thing about the state of our whole culture
of the pre-War period was not only the total impotence of artistic and cultural
creative power in general, but the hatred with which the memory of the greater
past was besmirched and effaced. In nearly all fields of art, especially
in the theater and literature, we began around the turn of the century to
produce less that was new and significant, but to disparage the best of
the old work and represent it as inferior and surpassed; as though this
epoch of the most humiliating inferiority could surpass anything at all.
And from this effort to remove the past from the eyes of the present, the
evil intent of the apostles of the future could clearly and distinctly be
seen. By this it should have been recognized that these were no new, even
if false, cultural conceptions, but a process of destroying all culture,
paving the way for a stultification of healthy artistic feeling: the spiritual
preparation of political Bolshevism. For if the age of Pericles seems embodied
in the Parthenon, the Bolshevistic present is embodied in a cubist
monstrosity.In this connection we must also point to the cowardice which
here again was manifest in the section of our people which on the basis
of its education and position should have been obligated to resist this
cultural disgrace. But from pure fear of the clamor raised by the apostles
of Bolshevistic art, who furiously attacked anyone who didn't want to recognize
the crown of creation in them and pilloried him as a backward philistine,
they renounced all serious resistance and reconciled themselves to what
seemed after all inevitable. They were positively scared stiff that these
half-wits or scoundrels would accuse them of lack of understanding; as though
it were a disgrace not to understand the products of spiritual degenerates
or slimy swindlers. These cultural disciples, it is true, possessed a very
simple means of passing off their nonsense as something God knows how important:
they passed off all sorts of incomprehensible and obviously crazy stuff
on their amazed fellow men as a so-called inner experience, a cheap way
of taking any word of opposition out of the mouths of most people in advance.
For beyond a doubt this could be an inner experience; the doubtful part
was whether it is permissible to dish up the hallucinations of lunatics
or criminals to the healthy world. The works of a Moritz von Schwind, or
of a Bocklin, were also an inner experience, but of artists graced by God
and not of clowns.Here was a good occasion to study the pitiful cowardice of our
so-called intelligentsia, which dodged any serious resistance to this poisoning
of the healthy instinct of our people and left it to the people themselves
to deal with this insolent nonsense. In order not to be considered lacking
in artistic understanding, people stood for every mockery of art and ended
up by becoming really uncertain in the judgment of good and bad.All in all, these were tokens of times that were getting very bad.As another disquieting attribute, the following must yet
be stated:In the nineteenth century our cities began more and more to
lose the character of cultural sites and to descend to the level of mere
human settlements. The small attachment of our present big-city proletariat
for the town they live in is the consequence of the fact that it is only
the individual's accidental local stopping place, and nothing more. This
is partly connected with the frequent change of residence caused by social
conditions, which do not give a man time to form a closer bond with the
city, and another cause is to be found in the general cultural insignificance
and poverty of our present-day cities per se.At the time of the wars of liberations the German cities were
not only small in number, but also modest as to size. The few really big
cities were mostly princely residences, and as such nearly always possessed
a certain cultural value and for the most part also a certain artistic picture.
The few places with more than fifty thousand inhabitants were, compared
to present-day cities with the same population, rich in scientific and artistic
treasures When Munich numbered sixty thousand souls, it was already on its
way to becoming one of the first German art centers; today nearly every
factory town has reached this number, if not many times surpassed it, yet
some cannot lay claim to the slightest real values. Masses of apartments
and tenements, and nothing more How, in view of such emptiness, any special
bond could be expected to arise with such a town must remain a mystery.
No one will be particularly attached to a city which has nothing more to
offer than every other, which lacks every individual note and in which everything
has been carefully avoided which might even look like art or anything of
the sort.But, as if this were not enough, even the really big cities
grow relatively poorer in real art treasures with the mounting increase
in the population. They seem more and more standardized and give entirely
the same picture as the poor little factory towns, though in larger dimensions.
What recent times have added to the cultural content of our big cities is
totally inadequate. All our cities are living on the fame and treasures
of the past. For instance, take from present-day Munich everything that
was created under Ludwig I,l and you will note with horror how poor the
addition of significant artistic creations has been since that time. The
same is true of Berlin and most other big cities.The essential point, however, is the following: our big cities
of today possess no monuments dominating the city picture, which might somehow
be regarded as the symbols of the whole epoch. This was true in the cities
of antiquity, since nearly every one possessed a special monument in which
it took pride. The characteristic aspect of the ancient city did not lie
in private buildings, but in the community monuments which seemed made,
not for the moment, but for eternity, because they were intended to reflect,
not the wealth of an individual owner, but the greatness and wealth of the
community. Thus arose monuments which were very well suited to unite the
individual inhabitant with his city in a way which today sometimes seems
almost incomprehensible to us. For what the ancient had before his eyes
was less the humble houses of private owners than the magnificent edifices
of the whole community. Compared to them the dwelling house really sank
to the level of an insignificant object of secondary importance.Only if we compare the dimensions of the ancient state structures
with contemporary dwelling houses can we understand the overpowering sweep
and force of this emphasis on the principle of giving first place to public
works. The few still towering colossuses which we admire in the ruins and
wreckage of the ancient world are not former business palaces, but temples
and state structures; in other words, works whose owner was the community.
Even in the splendor of late Rome the first place was not taken by the villas
and palaces of Individual citizens, but by the temples and baths, the stadiums,
circuses, aqueducts, basilicas, etc., of the state, hence of the whole people.Even the Germanic Middle Ages upheld the same guiding principle,
though amid totally different conceptions of art. What in antiquity found
its expression in the Acropolis or the Pantheon now cloaked itself in the
forms of the Gothic Cathedral. Like giants these monumental structures towered
over the swarming frames wooden, and brick buildings of the medieval city,
and thus became symbols which even today, with the tenements climbing higher
and higher beside them, determine the character and picture of these towns.
Cathedrals, town halls, grain markets, and battlements are the visible signs
of a Inception which in the last analysis was the same as that of antiquity.Yet how truly deplorable the relation between state buildings
and private buildings has become today! If the fate of Rome should strike
Berlin, future generations would some day admire the department stores of
a few Jews as the mightiest works of our era and the hotels of a few corporations
as the characteristic expression of the culture of our times. Just compare
the miserable discrepancy prevailing in a city like even Berlin between
the structures of the Reich and those of finance and commerceEven the sum of money spent on state buildings is usually laughable
and inadequate. Works are not built for eternity, but at most for the need
of the moment. And in them there is no dominant higher idea. At the time
of its construction, the Berlin Schloss was a work of different stature
than the new library, for instance, in the setting of the present time.
While a single battleship represented a value of approximately sixty millions,
hardly half of this sum was approved for the first magnificent building
of the Reich, intended to stand for eternity, the Reichstag Building. Indeed,
when the question of interior furnishings came up for decision, the exalted
house voted against the use of stone and ordered the walls trimmed with
plaster; this time, I must admit, the parliamentarians did right for a change:
stone walls are no place for plaster heads.Thus, our cities of the present lack the outstanding symbol
of national community which, we must therefore not be surprised to find,
sees no symbol of itself in the cities. The inevitable result is a desolation
whose practical effect is the total indifference of the big-city dweller
to the destiny of his city.This, too, is a sign of our declining culture and our general
collapse. The epoch is stifling in the pettiest utilitarianism or better
expressed in the service of money. And we have no call for surprise if under
such a deity little sense of heroism remains. The present time is only harvesting
what the immediate past has sown.All these symptoms of decay are in the last analysis only the consequences
of the absence of a definite, uniformly acknowledged philosophy and she
resultant general uncertainty in the judgment and attitude toward the various
great problems of the time. That is why, beginning in education, everyone
is half-hearted and vacillating, shunning responsibility and thus ending
in cowardly tolerance of even recognized abuses. Humanitarian bilge becomes
stylish and, by weakly yielding to cankers and sparing individuals, the
future of millions is sacrificed.How widespread the general disunity was growing is shown by
an examination of religious conditions before the War. Here, too, a unified
and effective philosophical conviction had long since been lost in large
sections of the nation. In this the members officially breaking away from
the churches play a less important role than those who are completely indifferent.
While both denominations maintain missions in Asia and Africa in order to
win new followers for their doctrine-an activity which can boast but very
modest success compared to the advance of the Mohammedan faith in particular
right here in Europe they lose millions and millions of inward adherents
who either are alien to all religious life or simply go their own ways.
The consequences, particularly from the moral point of view, are not favorable.Also noteworthy is the increasingly violent struggle against
the dogmatic foundations of the various churches without which in this human
world the practical existence of a religious faith is not conceivable. The
great masses of people do not consist of philosophers; precisely for the
masses, faith is often the sole foundation of a moral attitude. The various
substitutes have not proved so successful from the standpoint of results
that they could be regarded as a useful replacement for previous religious
creeds. But if religious doctrine and faith are really to embrace the broad
masses, the unconditional authority of the content of this faith is the
foundation of all efficacy. What the current mores, without which assuredly
hundreds of thousands of well-bred people would live sensibly and reasonably
but millions of others would not, are for general living, state principles
are for the state, and dogmas for the current religion. Only through them
is the wavering and infinitely interpretable, purely intellectual idea delimited
and brought into a form without which it could never become faith. Otherwise
the idea would never pass beyond a metaphysical conception; in short, a
philosophical opinion. The attack against dogmas as such, therefore, strongly
resembles the struggle against the general legal foundations of a state,
and, as the latter would end in a total anarchy of the state, the former
would end in a worthless religious nihilism.For the political man, the value of a religion must be estimated
less by its deficiencies than by the virtue of a visibly better substitute.
As long as this appears to be lacking, what is present can be demolished
only by fools or criminals.Not the smallest blame for the none too delectable religious
conditions must be borne by those who encumber the religious idea with too
many things of a purely earthly nature and thus often bring it into a totally
unnecessary conflict with so-called exact science. In this victory will
almost always fall to the latter, though perhaps after a hard struggle,
and religion will suffer serious damage in the eyes of all those who are
unable to raise themselves above a purely superficial knowledge.Worst of all, however, is the devastation wrought by the misuse
of religious conviction for political ends. In truth, we cannot sharply
enough attack those wretched crooks who would like to make religion an implement
to perform political or rather business services for them. These insolent
liars, it is true, proclaim their creed in a stentorian voice to the whole
world for other sinners to hear; but their intention is not, if necessary,
to die for it, but to live better. For a single-political swindle, provided
it brings in enough, they are willing to sell the heart of a whole religion;
for ten parliamentary mandates they would ally themselves with the Marxistic
mortal enemies of all religions-and for a minister's chair they would even
enter into marriage with the devil, unless the devil were deterred by a
remnant of decency.If in Germany before the War religious life for many had an
unpleasant aftertaste, this could be attributed to the abuse of Christianity
on the-part of a so-called ' Christian ' party and the shameless way in
which they attempted to identify the Catholic faith with a political party.This false association was a calamity which may have brought
parliamentary mandates to a number of good-for-nothings but injury to the
Church.The consequence, however, had to be borne by the whole nation,
since the outcome of the resultant slackening of religious life occurred
at a time when everyone was beginning to waver and vacillate anyway, and
the traditional foundations of ethics and morality were threatening to collapse.This, too, created cracks and rifts in our nation which might
present no danger as long as no special strain-arose, but which inevitably
became catastrophic when by the force of great events the question of the
inner solidity of the nation achieved decisive importance.Likewise in the field of politics the observant eye could
discern evils which, if not remedied or altered within a reasonable time,
could be and had to be regarded as signs of the Reich's coming decay. The
aimlessness of German domestic and foreign policy was apparent to everyone
who was not purposely blind. The regime of compromise seemed to be most
in keeping with Bismarck's conception that 'politics is an art of the possible.'
But between Bismarck and the later German chancellors there was a slight
difference which made it permissible for the former to let fall such an
utterance on the nature of politics while the same view from the mouths
of his successors could not but take on an entirely different meaning. For
Bismarck with this phrase only wanted to say that for the achievement of
a definite political goal all possibilities should be utilized, or, in other
words, that all possibilities should be taken into account; in the view
of his successors, however, this utterance solemnly released them from the
necessity of having any political ideas or goals whatever. And the leadership
of the Reich at this time really had no more political goals; for the necessary
foundation of a definite philosophy was lacking, as well as the necessary
clarity on the inner laws governing the development of all political life.There were not a few who saw things blackly in this respect
and flayed the planlessness and heedlessness of the Reich's policies, and
well recognized their inner weakness and hollowness but these were only
outsiders in political life; the official government authorities passed
by the observations of a Houston Stewart Chamberlain with the same indifference
as still occurs today. These people are too stupid to think any-thing for
themselves and too conceited to learn what is necessary from others-an age-old
truth which caused Oxenstierna to cry out: 'The world is governed by a mere
fraction of wisdom';l and indeed nearly every ministerial secretary embodies
only an atom of this fraction. Only since Germany has become a republic,
this no longer applies. That is why it has been forbidden by the Law for
the Defense of the Republic 2 to believe, let alone discuss, any such thought.
Oxenstierna was lucky to live when he did, and not in this wise republic
of ours.Even in the pre-War period that institution which was supposed
to embody the strength of the Reich was recognized by many as its greatest
weakness: the parliament or Reichstag. Cowardice and irresponsibility were
here completely wedded.
One of the foolish remarks which today we not infrequently hear is that
parliamentarism in Germany has 'gone wrong since the revolution.' This too
easily gives the impression that it was different before the revolution.
In reality the effect of this institution can be nothing else than devastating-and
this was true even in those days when most people wore blinders and saw
nothing and wanted to see nothing. For if Germany was crushed, it was owing
not least to this institution; no thanks are owing to the Reichstag that
the catastrophe did not occur earlier; this must be attributed to the resistance
to the activity of this gravedigger of the German nation and the German
Reich, which persisted in the years of peace.Out of the vast number of devastating evils for which this institution
was directly or indirectly responsible, I shall pick only a single one which
is most in keeping with the inner essence of this most irresponsible institution
of all times: the terrible halfheartedness and weakness of the political
leaders of the Reich both at home and abroad, which, primarily attributable
to the activities of the Reichstag, developed into one of the chief reasons
for the political collapse.Half-hearted was everything that was subject in any way to the
influence of this parliament, regardless which way you look.Half-hearted and weak was the alliance policy of the Reich in
its foreign relations. By trying to preserve peace it steered inevitably
toward war.Half-hearted was the Polish policy. It consisted in irritating
without ever seriously going through with anything. The result was neither
a victory for the Germans nor conciliation of the Poles, but hostility with
Russia instead.Half-hearted was the solution of the Alsace-Lorraine question.
Instead of crushing the head of the French hydra once and for all with a
brutal fist, and then granting the Alsatian equal rights, neither of the
two was done. Nor could it be, for in the ranks of the biggest parties sat
the biggest traitors-in the Center, for example, Herr Wetterle.All this, however, would have been bearable if the general halfheartedness
had not taken possession of that power on whose existence the survival of
the Reich ultimately depended: the army.The sins of the so-called 'German Reichstag' would alone suffice
to cover it for all times with the curse of the German nation. For the most
miserable reasons, these parliamentary rabble stole and struck from the
hand of the nation its weapon of self-preservation, the only defense of
our people's freedom and independence. If today the graves of Flanders field
were to open, from them would arise the bloody accusers, hundreds of thousands
of the best young Germans who, due to the unscrupulousness of these parliamentarian
criminals, were driven, poorly trained and half-trained, into the arms of
death; the fatherland lost them and millions of crippled and dead, solely
and alone so that a few hundred misleaders of the people could perpetrate
their political swindles and blackmail, or merely rattle off their doctrinaire
theories.While the Jews in their Marxist and democratic press proclaimed
to the whole world the lie about 'German militarism' and sought to incriminate
Germany by all means, the Marxist and democratic parties were obstructing
any comprehensive training of the German national man-power. The enormous
crime that was thus committed could not help but be clear to everyone who
just considered that, in case of a coming war, the entire nation would have
to take up arms, and that, therefore, through the rascality of these savory
representatives of their own so-called 'popular representation,' millions
of Germans were driven to face the enemy half-trained and badly trained.
But even if the consequences resulting from the brutal and savage unscrupulousness
of these parliamentary pimps were left entirely out of consideration: this
lack of trained soldiers at the beginning of the War could easily lead to
its loss, and this was most terribly confirmed in the great World War.The loss of the fight for the freedom and independence of the
German nation is the result of the half-heartedness and weakness manifested
even in peacetime as regards drafting the entire national man-power for
the defense of the fatherland.If too few recruits were trained on the land, the same halfheartedness
was at work on the sea, making the weapon of national self-preservation
more or less worthless. Unfortunately the navy leadership was itself infected
with the spirit of halfheartedness. The tendency to build all ships a little
smaller than the English ships which were being launched at the same time
was hardly farsighted, much less brilliant. Especially a fleet which from
the beginning can in point of pure numbers not be brought to the same level
as its presumable adversary must seek to compensate for the lack of numbers
by the superior fighting power of its individual ships. It is the superior
fighting power which matters and not any legendary superiority in 'quality.'
Actually modern technology is so far advanced and has achieved so much uniformity
in the various civilized countries that it must be held impossible to give
the ships of one power an appreciably larger combat value than the ships
of like tonnage of another state. And it is even less conceivable to achieve
a superiority with smaller deplacement as compared to larger.In actual fact, the smaller tonnage of the German ships was
possible only at the cost of speed and armament. The phrase with which people
attempted to justify this fact showed a very serious lack of logic in the
department responsible for this in peacetime. They declared, for instance,
that the material of the German guns was so obviously superior to the British
that the German 28-centimeter gun was not behind the British 30.5centimeter
gun in performance!!But for this very reason it would have been our duty to change
over to the 30.5-centimeter gun, for the goal should have been the achievement,
not of equal but of superior fighting power. Otherwise it would have been
superfluous for the army to order the 42-centimeter mortar, since the German
21-centimeter mortar was in itself superior to any then existing high trajectory
French cannon, and the fortresses would have likewise fallen to the 30.5-centimeter
mortar. The leadership of the land army, however, thought soundly, while
that of the navy unfortunately did not.The neglect of superior artillery power and superior speed lay
entirely in. the absolutely erroneous so-called 'idea of risk.' The navy
leadership by the very form in which it expanded the fleet renounced attack
and thus from the outset inevitably assumed the defensive. But in this they
also renounced the ultimate success which is and can only be forever in
attack.A ship of smaller speed and weaker armament will as a rule be
sent to the bottom by a speedier and more heavily armed enemy at the firing
distance favorable for the latter. A number of our cruisers were to find
this out to their bitter grief. The utter mistakenness of the peacetime
opinion of the navy staff was shown by the War, which forced the introduction,
whenever possible, of modified armament in old ships and better armament
in newer ones. If in the battle of Skagerrak the German ships had had the
tonnage, the armament, the same speed as the English ships, the British
navy would have found a watery grave beneath the hurricane of the more accurate
and more effective German 38-centimeter shells.Japan carried on a different naval policy in those days. There,
on principle, the entire emphasis was laid on giving every single new ship
superior fighting power over the presumable adversary. The result was a
greater possibility of offensive utilization of the navy.While the staff of the land army still kept free of such basically
false trains of thought, the navy, which unfortunately had better 'parliamentary'
representation, succumbed to the spirit of parliament. It was organized
on the basis of half-baked ideas and was later used in a similar way. What
immortal fame the navy nevertheless achieved could only be set to the account
of the skill of the German armaments worker and the ability and incomparable
heroism of the individual officers and crews. If the previous naval high
command had shown corresponding intelligence, these sacrifices would not
have been in vain.Thus perhaps it was precisely the superior parliamentary dexterity
of the navy's peacetime head that resulted in its misfortune, since, even
in its building, parliamentary instead of purely military criteria unfortunately
began to play the decisive role. The half-heartedness and weakness as well
as the meager logic in thinking, characteristic of the parliamentary institution,
began to color the leadership of the navy.The land army, as already emphasized, still refrained from such
basically false trains of thought. Particularly the colonel in the great
General Staff of that time, Ludendorff, carried on a desperate struggle
against the criminal half-heartedness and weakness with which the Reichstag
approached the vital problems of the nation, and for the most part negated
them. If the struggle which this officer then carried on was nevertheless
in vain, the blame was borne half by parliament and half by the attitude
and weakness even more miserable, if possible- of Reich Chancellor Bethmann
Hollweg. Yet today this does not in the least prevent those who were responsible
for the German collapse from putting the blame precisely on him who alone
combated this neglect of national interests-one swindle more or less is
nothing to these born crooks.Anyone who contemplates all the sacrifices which were heaped
on the nation by the criminal frivolity of these most irresponsible among
irresponsibles, who passes in review all the uselessly sacrificed dead and
maimed, as well as the boundless shame and disgrace, the immeasurable misery
which has now struck us, and knows that all this happened only to clear
the path to ministers' chairs for a gang of unscrupulous climbers and job-hunters-anyone
who contemplates all this will understand that these creatures can, believe
me, be described only by words such as ' scoundrel, ' ' villain, ' ' scum,
' and ' criminal, ' otherwise the meaning and purpose of having these expressions
in our linguistic usage would be incomprehensible. For compared to these
traitors to the nation, every pimp is a man of honor.Strangely enough, all the really seamy sides of old Germany
attracted attention only when the inner solidarity of the nation would inevitably
suffer thereby. Yes, indeed, in such cases the unpleasant truths were positively
bellowed to the broad masses, while otherwise the same people preferred
modestly to conceal many things and in part simply to deny them. This was
the case when the open discussion of a question might have led to an improvement.
At the same time, the government offices in charge knew next to nothing
of the value and nature of propaganda. The fact that by clever and persevering
use of propaganda even heaven can be represented as hell to the people,
and conversely the most wretched life as paradise, was known only to the
Jew, who acted accordingly; the German, or rather his government, hadn't
the faintest idea of this.During the War we were to suffer most gravely for all this.Along with all the evils of German life before the War here
indicated, and many more, there were also many advantages. In a fair examination,
we must even recognize that most of our weaknesses were largely shared by
other countries and peoples, and in some, indeed, we were put completely
in the shade, while they did not possess many of our own actual advantages.At the head of these advantages we can, among other things,
set the fact that, of nearly all European peoples, the German people still
made the greatest attempt to preserve the national character of its economy
and despite certain evil omens was least subject to international financial
control. A dangerous advantage, to be sure, which later became the greatest
instigator of the World War. But aside from this and many other things,
we must, from the vast number of healthy sources of national strength, pick
three institutions which in their kind were exemplary and in part unequaled.First, the state form as such and the special stamp which it
had received in modern Germany.Here we may really disregard the individual monarchs who as
men are subject to all the weaknesses which are customarily visited upon
this earth and its children; if we were not lenient in this, we would have
to despair of the present altogether, for are not the representatives of
the present regime, considered as personalities, intellectually and morally
of the most modest proportions that we can conceive of even racking our
brains for a long time? Anyone who measures the 'value' of the German revolution
by the value and stature of the personalities which it has given the German
people since November, 1919, will have to hide his head for shame before
the judgment of future generations, whose tongue it will no longer be possible
to stop by protective laws, etc., and which therefore will say what today
all of us know to be true, to wit, that brains and virtue in our modern
German leaders are inversely proportionate to their vices and the size of
their mouths.To be sure, the monarchy had grown alien to many, to the broad
masses above all. This was the consequence of the fact that the monarchs
were not always surrounded by the brightest -to put it mildly-and above
all not by the sincerest minds. Unfortunately, a number of them liked fiatterers
better than straightforward natures, and consequently it was the fiatterers
who 'instructed' them. A very grave evil at a time when many of the world's
old opinions had undergone a great change, spreading naturally to the estimation
in which many old-established traditions of the courts were held.Thus, at the turn of the century the common man in the street
could no longer find any special admiration for the princess who rode along
the front in uniform. Apparently those in authority were incapable of correctly
judging the effect of such a parade in the eyes of the people, for if they
had, such unfortunate performances would doubtless not have occurred. Moreover,
the humanitarian bilge-not always entirely sincere-that these circles went
in for repelled more than it attracted. If, for example, Princess X condescended
to taste a sample of food in a people's kitchen, in former days it might
have looked well, but now the result was the opposite. We may be justified
in assuming that Her Highness really had no idea that the food on the day
she sampled it was a little different from what it usually was; but it was
quite enough that the people knew it.Thus, what may possibly have been the best intention became
ridiculous, if not actually irritating.Stories about the monarch's proverbial frugality, his much too
early rising and his slaving away until late into the night, amid the permanent
peril of threatening undernourishment, aroused very dubious comments. People
did not ask to know what food and how much of it the monarch deigned to
consume; they did not begrudge him a 'square' meal; nor were they out to
deprive him of the sleep he needed; they were satisfied if in other things,
as a man and character, he was an honor to the name of his house and to
the nation, and if he fulfilled his duties as a ruler. Telling fairy tales
helped little, but did all the more harm.This and many similar things were mere trifles, however. What
had a worse effect on sections of the nation, that were unfortunately very
large, was the mounting conviction that people were ruled from the top no
matter what happened, and that, therefore, the individual had no need to
bother about anything. As long as the government was really good, or at
least had the best intentions, this was bearable. But woe betide if the
old government whose intentions were after all good were replaced by a new
one which was not so decent; then spineless compliance and childlike faith
were the gravest calamity that could be conceived of.But along with these and many other weaknesses, there were unquestionable
assets.For one thing, the stability of the entire state leadership,
brought about by the monarchic form of state and the removal of the highest
state posts from the welter of speculation by ambitious politicians. Furthermore,
the dignity of the institution as such and the authority which this alone
created: likewise the raising of the civil service and particularly the
army above the level of party obligations. One more advantage was the personal
embodiment of the state's summit in the monarch as a person, and the example
of responsibility which is bound to be stronger in a monarch than in the
accidental rabble of a parliamentary majority-the proverbial incorruptibility
of the German administration could primarily be attributed to this. Finally,
the cultural value of the monarchy for the German people was high and could
very well compensate for other drawbacks. The German court cities were still
the refuge of an artistic state of mind, which is increasingly threatening
to die out in our materialistic times. What the German princes did for art
and science, particularly in the nineteenth century, was exemplary. The
present period in any case cannot be compared with it.As the greatest credit factor, however, in this period of
incipient and slowly spreading decomposition of our nation, we must note
the army. It was the mightiest school of the German nation, and not for
nothing was the hatred of all our enemies directed against this buttress
of national freedom and independence. No more glorious monument can be dedicated
to this unique institution than a statement of the truth that it was slandered,
hated, combated, and also feared by all inferior peoples. The fact that
the rage of the international exploiters of our people in Versailles was
directed primarily against the old German army permits us to recognize it
as the bastion of our national freedom against the power of the stock exchange.
Without this warning power, the intentions of Versailles would long since
have been carried out against our people. What the German people owes to
the army can be briefly summed up in a single word, to wit: everything.The army trained men for unconditional responsibility at a time
when this quality had grown rare and evasion of it was becoming more and
more the order of the day, starting with the model prototype of all irresponsibility,
the parliament; it trained men in personal courage in an age when cowardice
threatened to become a raging disease and the spirit of sacrifice, the willingness
to give oneself for the general welfare, was looked on almost as stupidity,
and the only man regarded as intelligent was the one who best knew how to
indulge and advance his own ego. it was the school that still taught the
individual German not to seek the salvation of the nation in lying phrases
about an international brotherhood between Negroes, Germans, Chinese, French,
etc., but in the force and solidarity of our own nation.The army trained men in resolution while elsewhere in life indecision
and doubt were beginning to determine the actions of men. In an age when
everywhere the know-it-alls were setting the tone, it meant something to
uphold the principle that some command is always better than none. In this
sole principle there was still an unspoiled robust health which would long
since have disappeared from the rest of our life if the army and its training
had not provided a continuous renewal of this primal force. We need only
see the terrible indecision of the Reich's present leaders, who can summon
up the energy for no action unless it is the forced signing of a new decree
for plundering the people; in this case, to be sure, they reject all responsibility
and with the agility of a court stenographer sign everything that anyone
may see fit to put before them. In this case the decision is easy to take;
for it is dictated.The army trained men in idealism and devotion to the fatherland
and its greatness while everywhere else greed and materialism had spread
abroad. It educated a single people in contrast to the division into classes
and in this perhaps its sole mistake was the institution of voluntary one-year
enlistment. A mistake, because through it the principle of unconditional
equality was broken, and-the man with higher education was removed from
the setting of his general environment, while precisely the exact opposite
would have been advantageous. In view of the great unworldliness of our
upper classes and their constantly mounting estrangement from their own
people, the army could have exerted a particularly beneficial effect if
in its own ranks, at least, it had avoided any segregation of the so-called
intelligentsia. That this was not done was a mistake; but what institution
in this world makes no mistakes? In this one, at any rate, the good was
so predominant that the few weaknesses lay far beneath the average degree
of human imperfection.It must be attributed to the army of the old Reich as its highest
merit that at a time when heads were generally counted by majorities, it
placed heads above the majority. Confronted with -the Jewish-democratic
idea of a blind-worship of numbers, the army sustained belief in personality.
And thus it trained what the new epoch most urgently needed: men. In the
morass of a universally spreading softening and effeminization, each year
three hundred and fifty thousand vigorous young men sprang from the ranks
of the army, men who in their two years' training had lost the softness
of youth and achieved bodies hard as steel. The young man who practiced
obedience during this time could-then learn to command. By his very step
you could recognize the soldier who had done his service.This was--the highest school of the German nation, and it was
not for nothing that the bitterest hatred of those who from envy and-greed
needed and desired the impotence of the Reich and the defenselessness of
its citizens was concentrated on it What many Germans in their blindness
or ill will did not want to see was recognized-by the foreign world: the
German army was the mightiest weapon serving the freedom of the German nation
and the sustenance of its children.The third in the league, along with the state form and the
army, was the incomparable civil service of the old Reich.Germany was the best organized and best administered country
in the world. The German government official might well be accused of bureaucratic
red tape, but in the other countries things were no better in this respect;
they were worse. But what the other countries did not possess was the wonderful
solidity of this apparatus and the incorruptible honesty of its members.
It was better to be a little old-fashioned, but honest and loyal, than enlightened
and modern, but of inferior character and, as is often seen today, ignorant
and incompetent. For if today people like to pretend that the German administration
of the pre-War period, though bureaucratically sound, was bad from a business
point of view, only the following answer can be given: what country in the
world had an institution better directed and better organized in a business
sense than Germany's state railways? It was reserved to the revolution to
go on wrecking this exemplary apparatus until at last it seemed ripe for
being taken out of the hands of the nation and socialized according to the
lights of this Republic's founders; in other words, made to serve international
stock exchange capital, the power behind the German revolution.What especially distinguished the German civil service and administrative
apparatus was their independence from the individual governments whose passing
political views could have no effect on the job of German civil servant.
Since the revolution, it must be admitted, this has completely changed.
Ability and competence were replaced by party ties and a self-reliant, independent
character became more of a hindrance than a help.
The state form, the army. and the civil service formed the basis for the
old Reich's wonderful power and strength. These first and foremost were
the reasons for a quality which is totally lacking in the present-day state:
state's authority! For this is not based on bull-sessions in parliaments
or provincial diets, or on laws for its protection, or court sentences to
frighten those who insolently deny it, etc., but on the general confidence
which may and can be placed in the leadership and administration of a commonwealth.
This confidence, in turn, results only from an unshakable inner faith in
the selflessness and honesty of the government and administration of a country
and from an agreement between the spirit of the laws and the general ethical
view. For in the long run government systems are not maintained by the pressure
of violence, but by faith in their soundness and in the. truthfulness with
which they represent and advance the interests of a people.Gravely as certain evils of the pre-War period corroded and
threatened to undermine the inner strength of the nation, it must not be
forgotten that other states suffered even more than Germany from most of
these ailments and yet in the critical hour of danger did not nag and perish.
But if we consider that the German weaknesses before the War were balanced
by equally great strengths, the ultimate cause of the collapse can and must
lie in a different field; and this is actually the case.The deepest and ultimate reason for the decline of the old Reich
lay in its failure to recognize the racial problem and its importance for
the historical development of peoples. For events in the lives of peoples
are not expressions of chance, but processes related to the self-preservation
and propagation of the species and the race and subject to the laws of Nature,
even if people are not conscious of the inner reason for their actions.


THERE are some

truths which are so obvious that for this very reason they are not

seen or at least not recognized by ordinary people. They sometimes

pass by such truisms as though blind and are most astonished when

someone suddenly discovers what everyone really ought to know.

Columbus's eggs lie around by the hundreds of thousands, but Columbuses

are met with less frequently.Thus men without

exception wander about in the garden of Nature; they imagine that they

know practically everything and yet with few exceptions pass blindly by

one of the most patent principles of Nature's rule: the inner segregation

of the species of all living beings on this earth.Even the most superficial

observation shows that Nature's restricted
form of propagation and

increase is an almost rigid basic law of all the
innumerable forms of

expression of her vital urge. Every animal mates only
with a member of the

same species. The titmouse seeks the titmouse, the
finch the finch, the

stork the stork, the field mouse the field mouse, the
dormouse the dormouse,

the wolf the she-wolf, etc.Only unusual circumstances can change this, primarily the compulsion of captivity or any other cause that makes it impossible to mate within the same species. But then Nature begins to resist this with all possible means, and her most visible protest consists either in refusing further
capacity for propagation to bastards or in limiting the fertility of later offspring; in most cases, however, she takes away the power of resistance to disease or hostile attacks.This is only too natural.Any crossing of two beings not at exactly the same level produces
a medium between the level of the two parents. This means: the offspring will probably stand higher than the racially lower parent, but not as high as the higher one. Consequently, it will later succumb in the struggle against the higher level. Such mating is contrary to the will of Nature for a higher breeding of all life. The precondition for this does not lie in associating superior and inferior, but in the total victory of the former. The stronger must dominate and not blend with the weaker, thus sacrificing his own greatness. Only the born weakling can view this as cruel, but he after all is only a weak and limited man; for if this law did not prevail, any conceivable higher development of organic living beings would be unthinkable.The consequence of this racial purity, universally valid in
Nature, is not only the sharp outward delimitation of the various races,
but their uniform character in themselves. The fox is always a fox, the goose a goose, the tiger a tiger, etc., and the difference can lie at most in the varying measure of force, strength, intelligence, dexterity, endurance,
etc., of the individual specimens. But you will never find a fox who in
his inner attitude might, for example, show humanitarian tendencies toward
geese, as similarly there is no cat with a friendly inclination toward mice.Therefore, here, too, the struggle among themselves arises less from inner aversion than from hunger and love. In both cases, Nature looks on calmly, with satisfaction, in fact. In the struggle for daily bread all those who are weak and sickly or less determined succumb, while the struggle of the males for the female grants the right or opportunity to propagate only to the healthiest. And struggle is always a means for improving a species' health and power of resistance and, therefore, a cause of its higher development.If the process were different, all further and higher development would cease and the opposite would occur. For, since the inferior always predominates numerically over the best, if both had the same possibility of preserving life and propagating, the inferior would multiply so much more rapidly that in the end the best would inevitably be driven into the background, unless a correction of this state of affairs were undertaken. Nature does just this by subjecting the weaker part to such severe living conditions that by them alone the number is limited, and by not permitting the remainder to increase promiscuously, but making a new and ruthless choice according to strength and health.No more than Nature desires the mating of weaker with stronger individuals, even less does she desire the blending of a higher with a lower race, since, if she did, her whole work of higher breeding, over perhaps hundreds of thousands of years, night be ruined with one blow.Historical experience offers countless proofs of this. It shows with terrifying clarity that in every mingling of Aryan blood with that of lower peoples the result was the end of the cultured people. North America, whose population consists in by far the largest part of Germanic elements who mixed but little with the lower colored peoples, shows a different humanity and culture from Central and South America, where the predominantly Latin immigrants often mixed with the aborigines on a large scale. By this one example, we can clearly and distinctly recognize the effect of racial mixture. The Germanic inhabitant of the American continent, who has remained racially pure and unmixed, rose to be master of the continent; he will remain the master as long as he does not fall a victim to defilement of the blood.The result of all racial crossing is therefore in brief always the following:





 Lowering of the level of the higher race; Physical and intellectual regression and hence the beginning of a slowly but surely progressing sickness.





To bring about such a development is, then, nothing else but
to sin against the will of the eternal creator.And as a sin this act is rewarded.When man attempts to rebel against the iron logic of Nature,
he comes into struggle with the principles to which he himself owes his
existence as a man. And this attack I must lead to his own doom.Here, of course, we encounter the objection of the modern pacifist,
as truly Jewish in its effrontery as it is stupid! 'Man's role is to overcome
Nature!'Millions thoughtlessly parrot this Jewish nonsense and end up by really imagining that they themselves represent a kind of conqueror of
Nature; though in this they dispose of no other weapon than an idea, and
at that such a miserable one, that if it were true no world at all would
be conceivableBut quite aside from the fact that man has never yet conquered Nature in anything, but at most has caught hold of and tried to lift one
or another corner of her immense gigantic veil of eternal riddles and secrets,
that in reality he invents nothing but only discovers everything, that he
does not dominate Nature, but has only risen on the basis of his knowledge
of various laws and secrets of Nature to be lord over those other living
creatures who lack this knowledge-quite aside from all this, an idea cannot
overcome the preconditions for the development and being of humanity, since
the idea itself depends only on man. Without human beings there is no human
idea in this world, therefore the idea as such is always conditioned by
the presence of human beings and hence of all the laws which created the
precondition for their existence.And not only that! Certain ideas are even tied up with certain
men. This applies most of all to those ideas whose content originates, not
in an exact scientific truth, but in the world of emotion, or, as it is
so beautifully and clearly expressed today, reflects an 'inner experience.'
All these ideas, which have nothing to do with cold logic as such, but represent
only pure expressions of feeling, ethical conceptions, etc., are chained
to the existence of men, to whose intellectual imagination and creative
power they owe their existence. Precisely in this case the preservation
of these definite races and men is the precondition for the existence of
these ideas. Anyone, for example, who really desired the victory of the
pacifistic idea in this world with all his heart would have to fight with
all the means at his disposal for the conquest of the world by the Germans;
for, if the opposite should occur, the last pacifist would die out with
the last German, since the rest of the world has never fallen so deeply
as our own people, unfortunately, has for this nonsense so contrary to Nature
and reason. Then, if we were serious, whether we liked it or not, we would
have to wage wars in order to arrive at pacifism. This and nothing else
was what Wilson, the American world savior, intended, or so at least our
German visionaries believed-and thereby his purpose was fulfilled.In actual fact the pacifistic-humane idea is perfectly all right
perhaps when the highest type of man has previously conquered and subjected
the world to an extent that makes him the sole ruler of this earth. Then
this idea lacks the power of producing evil effects in exact proportion
as its practical application becomes rare and finally impossible. Therefore,
first struggle and then we shall see what can be done.l Otherwise mankind
has passed the high point of its development and the end is not the domination
of any ethical idea but barbarism and consequently chaos. At this point
someone or other may laugh, but this planet once moved through the ether
for millions of years without human beings and it can do so again some day
if men forget that they owe their higher existence, not to the ideas of
a few crazy ideologists, but to the knowledge and ruthless application of
Nature's stern and rigid laws.Everything we admire on this earth today-science and art, technology
and inventions-is only the creative product of a few peoples and originally
perhaps of one race. On them depends the existence of this whole culture.
If they perish, the beauty of this earth will sink into the grave with them.However much the soil, for example, can influence men, the result
of the influence will always be different depending on the races in question.
The low fertility of a living space may spur the one race to the highest
achievements; in others it will only be the cause of bitterest poverty and
final undernourishment with all its consequences. The inner nature of peoples
is always determining for the manner in which outward influences will be
effective. What leads the one to starvation trains the other to hard work.All great cultures of the past perished only because the originally
creative race died out from blood poisoning.The ultimate cause of such a decline was their forgetting that
all culture depends on men and not conversely; hence that to preserve a
certain culture the man who creates it must be preserved. This preservation
is bound up with the rigid law of necessity and the right to victory of
the best and stronger in this world.Those who want to live, let them fight, and those who do not
want to fight in this world of eternal struggle do not deserve to live.Even if this were hard-that is how it is ! Assuredly, however
by far the harder fate is that which strikes the man who thinks he can overcome
Nature, but in the last analysis only mocks her. Distress, misfortune, and
diseases are her answer.The man who misjudges and disregards the racial laws actually
forfeits the happiness that seems destined to be his. He thwarts the triumphal
march of the best race and hence also the precondition for all human progress,
and remains, in consequence burdened with all the sensibility of man, in
the animal realm of helpless misery.It is idle to argue which race or races were the original representative
of human culture and hence the real founders of all that we sum up under
the word 'humanity.' It is simpler to raise this question with regard to
the present, and here an easy, clear answer results. All the human culture,
all the results of art, science, and technology that we see before us today,
are almost exclusively the creative product of the Aryan. This very fact
admits of the not unfounded inference that he alone was the founder of all
higher humanity, therefore representing the prototype of all that we understand
by the word 'man.' He is the Prometheus of mankind from whose bright forehead
the divine spark of genius has sprung at all times, forever kindling anew
that fire of knowledge which illumined the night of silent mysteries and
thus caused man to climb the path to mastery over the other beings of this
earth. Exclude him-and perhaps after a few thousand years darkness will
again descend on the earth, human culture will pass, and the world turn
to a desert.If we were to divide mankind into three groups, the founders
of culture, the bearers of culture, the destroyers of culture, only the
Aryan could be considered as the representative of the first group. From
him originate the foundations and walls of all human creation, and only
the outward form and color are determined by the changing traits of character
of the various peoples. He provides the mightiest building stones and plans
for all human progress and only the execution corresponds to the nature
of the varying men and races. In a few decades, for example, the entire
east of Asia will possess a culture whose ultimate foundation will be Hellenic
spirit and Germanic technology, just as much as in Europe. Only the outward
form-in part at least-will bear the features of Asiatic character. It is
not true, as some people think, that Japan adds European technology to its
culture; no, European science and technology are trimmed with Japanese characteristics.
The foundation of actual life is no longer the special Japanese culture,
although it determines the color of life-because outwardly, in consequence
of its inner difference, it is more conspicuous to the European-but the
gigantic scientific-technical achievements of Europe and America; that is,
of Aryan peoples. Only on the basis of these achievements can the Orient
follow general human progress. They furnish the basis of the struggle for
daily bread, create weapons and implements for it, and only the outward
form is gradually adapted to Japanese character.If beginning today all further Aryan influence on Japan should
stop, assuming that Europe and America should perish, Japan's present rise
in science and technology might continue for a short time; but even in a
few years the well would dry up, the Japanese special character would gain,
but the present culture would freeze and sink back into the slumber from
which it was awakened seven decades ago by the wave of Aryan culture. Therefore,
just as the present Japanese development owes its life to Aryan origin,
long ago in the gray past foreign influence and foreign spirit awakened
the Japanese culture of that time. The best proof of this is furnished by
the fact of its subsequent sclerosis and total petrifaction. This can occur
in a people only when the original creative racial nucleus has been lost,
or if the external influence which furnished the impetus and the material
for the first development in the cultural field was later lacking. But if
it iS established that a people receives the most essential basic materials
of its culture from foreign races, that it assimilates and adapts them,
and that then, if further external influence is lacking, it rigidifies again
and again, such a race may be designated as culture-bearing,' but never
as 'culture-creating.' An examination of the various peoples from this standpoint
points to the fact that practically none of them were originally culture-founding,
but almost always culture-bearing.Approximately the following picture of their development always
results:Aryan races-often absurdly small numerically-subject foreign
peoples, and then, stimulated by the special living conditions of the new
territory (fertility, climatic conditions, etc.) and assisted by the multitude
of lower-type beings standing at their disposal as helpers, develop the
intellectual and organizational capacities dormant within them. Often in
a few millenniums or even centuries they create cultures which originally
bear all the inner characteristics of their nature, adapted to the above-indicated
special qualities of the soil and subjected beings. In the end, however,
the conquerors transgress against the principle of blood purity, to which
they had first adhered; they begin to mix with the subjugated inhabitants
and thus end their own existence; for the fall of man in paradise has always
been followed by his expulsion.After a thousand years and more, the last visible trace of the
former master people is often seen in the lighter skin color which its blood
left behind in the subjugated race, and in a petrified culture which it
had originally created. For, once the actual and spiritual conqueror lost
himself in the blood of the subjected people, the fuel for the torch of
human progress was lost! Just as, through the blood of the former masters,
the color preserved a feeble gleam in their memory, likewise the night of
cultural life is gently illumined by the remaining creations of the former
light-bringers. They shine through all the returned barbarism and too often
inspire the thoughtless observer of the moment with the opinion that he
beholds the picture of the present people before him, whereas he is only
gazing into the mirror of the past.It is then possible that such a people will a second time, or
even more often in the course of its history, come into contact with the
race of those who once brought it culture, and the memory of former encounters
will not necessarily be present. Unconsciously the remnant of the former
master blood will turn toward. the new arrival, and what was first possible
only by compulsion can now succeed through the people's own will. A new
cultural wave makes its entrance and continues until those who have brought
it are again submerged in the blood of foreign peoples.
It will be the task of a future cultural and world history to carry on researches
in this light and not to stifle in the rendition of external facts, as is
so often, unfortunately, the case with our present historical science.This mere sketch of the development of 'culture-bearing' nations
gives a picture of the growth, of the activity, and-the decline-of the true
culture-founders of this earth, the Aryans themselves.As in daily life the so-called genius requires a special cause,
indeed, often a positive impetus, to make him shine, likewise the genius-race
in the life of peoples. In the monotony of everyday life even significant
men often seem insignificant, hardly rising above the average of their environment;
as soon, however, as they are approached by a situation in which others
lose hope or go astray, the genius rises manifestly from the inconspicuous
average child, not seldom to the amazement of all those who had hitherto
seen him in the pettiness of bourgeois life-and that is why the prophet
seldom has any honor in his own country. Nowhere have we better occasion
to observe this than in war. From apparently harmless children, in difficult
hours when others lose hope, suddenly heroes shoot up with death-defying
determination and an icy cool presence of minds If this hour of trial had
not come, hardly anyone would ever have guessed that a young hero was hidden
in this beardless boy. It nearly always takes some stimulus to bring the
genius on the scene. The hammer-stroke of Fate which throws one man to the
ground suddenly strikes steel in another, and when the shell of everyday
life is broken, the previously hidden kernel lies open before the eyes of
the astonished world. The world then resists and does not want to believe
that the type which is apparently identical with it is suddenly a very different
being; a process which is repeated with every eminent son of man.Though an inventor, for example, establishes his fame only on
the day of his invention, it is a mistake to think that genius as such entered
into the man only at this hour-the spark of genius exists in the brain of
the truly creative man from the hour of his birth. True genius is always
inborn and never cultivated, let alone learned.As already emphasized, this applies not only to the individual
man but also to the race. Creatively active peoples always have a fundamental
creative gift, even if it should not be recognizable to the eyes of superficial
observers. Here, too, outward recognition is possible only in consequence
of accomplished deeds, since the rest of the world is not capable of recognizing
genius in itself, but sees only its visible manifestations in the form of
inventions, discoveries, buildings, pictures, etc.; here again it often
takes a long time before the world can fight its way through to this knowledge.
Just as in the life of the outstanding individual, genius or extraordinary
ability strives for practical realization only when spurred on by special
occasions, likewise in the life of nations the creative forces and capacities
which are present can often be exploited only when definite preconditions
invite.We see this most distinctly in connection with the race which
has been and is the bearer of human cultural development-the Aryans. As
soon as Fate leads them toward special conditions, their latent abilities
begin to develop in a more and more rapid sequence and to mold themselves
into tangible forms. The cultures which they found in such cases are nearly
always decisively determined by the existing soil, the given climate, and-the
subjected people. This last item, to be sure, is almost the most decisive.
The more primitive the technical foundations for a cultural activity, the
more necessary is the presence of human helpers who, organizationally assembled
and employed, must replace the force of the machine. Without this possibility
of using lower human beings, the Aryan would never have been able to take
his first steps toward his future culture; just as without the help of various
suitable beasts which he knew how to tame, he would not have arrived at
a technology which is now gradually permitting him to do without these beasts.
The saying, 'The Moor has worked off his debt, the Moor can go,' unfortunately
has only too deep a meaning. For thousands of years the horse had to serve
man and help him lay the foundations of a development which now, in consequence
of the motor car, is making the horse superfluous. In a few years his activity
trill have ceased, but without his previous collaboration man might have
had a hard time getting where he is today.Thus, for the formation of higher cultures the existence of
lower human types was one of the most essential preconditions, since they
alone were able to compensate for the lack of technical aids without which
a higher development is not conceivable. It is certain that the first culture
of humanity was based less on the tamed animal than on the use of lower
human beings.Only after the enslavement of subjected races did the same fate
strike beasts, and not the other way around, as some people would like to
think. For first the conquered warrior drew the plow-and only after him
the horse. Only pacifistic fools can regard this as a sign of human depravity,
failing to realize that this development had to take place in order to reach
the point where today these sky-pilots could force their drivel on the world.The progress of humanity is like climbing an endless ladder;
it is impossible to climb higher without first taking the lower steps. Thus,
the Aryan had to take the road to which reality directed him and not the
one that would appeal to the imagination of a modern pacifist. The road
of reality is hard and difficult, but in the end it leads where our friend
would like to bring humanity by dreaming, but unfortunately removes more
than bringing itHence it is no accident that the first cultures arose in places
where the Aryan, in his encounters with lower peoples, subjugated them and
bent them to his will. They then became the first technical instrument in
the service of a developing culture.Thus, the road which the Aryan had to take was clearly marked
out As a conqueror he subjected the lower beings and regulated their practical
activity under his command, according to his will and for his aims. But
in directing them to a useful, though arduous activity, he not only spared
the life of those he subjected; perhaps he gave them a fate that was better
than their previous so-called 'freedom.' As long as he ruthlessly upheld
the master attitude, not only did he really remain master, but also the
preserver and increaser of culture. For culture was based exclusively on
his abilities and hence on his actual survival. As soon as the subjected
people began to raise themselves up and probably approached the conqueror
in language, the sharp dividing wall between master and servant fell. The
Aryan gave up the purity of his blood and, therefore, lost his sojourn in
the paradise which he had made for himself. He became submerged in the racial
mixture, and gradually, more and more, lost his cultural capacity, until
at last, not only mentally but also physically, he began to resemble the
subjected aborigines more than his own ancestors. For a time he could live
on the existing cultural benefits, but then petrifaction set in and he fell
a prey to oblivion.Thus cultures and empires collapsed to make place for new formations.Blood mixture and the resultant drop in the racial level is
the sole cause of the dying out of old cultures; for men do not perish as
a result of lost wars, but by the loss of that force of resistance which
is contained only in pure blood.All who are not of good race in this world are chaff.And all occurrences in world history are only the expression
of the races' instinct of self-preservation, in the good or bad sense.The question of the inner causes of the Aryan's importance can
be answered to the effect that they are to be sought less in a natural instinct
of self-preservation than in the special type of its expression. The will
to live, subjectively viewed, is everywhere equal and different only in
the form of its actual expression. In the most primitive living creatures
the instinct of self-preservation does not go beyond concern for their own
ego. Egoism, as we designate this urge, goes so far that it even embraces
time; the moment itself claims everything, granting nothing to the coming
hours. In this condition the animal lives only for himself, seeks food only
for his present hunger, and fights only for his own life. As long as the
instinct of self-preservation expresses itself in this way, every basis
is lacking for the formation of a group, even the most primitive form of
family. Even a community between male and female beyond pure mating, demands
an extension of the instinct of self-preservation, since concern and struggle
for the ego are now directed toward the second party; the male sometimes
seeks food for the female, too, but for the most part both seek nourishment
for the young. Nearly always one comes to the defense of the other, and
thus the first, though infinitely simple, forms of a sense of sacrifice
result. As soon as this sense extends beyond the narrow limits of the family,
the basis for the formation of larger organisms and finally formal states
is created.In the lowest peoples of the earth this quality is present only
to a very slight extent, so that often they do not go beyond the formation
of the family. The greater the readiness to subordinate purely personal
interests, the higher rises the ability to establish comprehensive communities.This self-sacrificing will to give one's personal labor and
if necessary one's own life for others is most strongly developed in the
Aryan. The Aryan is not greatest in his mental qualities as such, but in
the extent of his willingness to put all his abilities in the service of
the community. In him the instinct of self-preservation has reached the
noblest form, since he willingly subordinates his own ego to-the life of
the community and, if the hour demands, even sacrifices it.Not in his intellectual gifts lies the source of the Aryan's
capacity for creating and building culture. If he had just this alone, he
could only act destructively, in no case could he organize; for the innermost
essence of all organization requires that the individual renounce putting
forward his personal opinion and interests and sacrifice both in favor of
a larger group. Only byway of this general community does he again recover
his share. Now, for example, he no longer works directly for himself, but
with his activity articulates himself with the community, not only for his
own advantage, but for the advantage of all. The most wonderful elucidation
of this attitude is provided by his word 'work,' by which he does not mean
an activity for maintaining life in itself, but exclusively a creative effort
that does not conflict with the interests of the community. Otherwise he
designates human activity, in so far as it serves the instinct of self-preservation
without consideration for his fellow men, as theft, usury, robbery, burglary,
etc.This state of mind, which subordinates the interests of the
ego to the conservation of the community, is really the first premise for
every truly human culture. From it alone can arise all the great works of
mankind, which bring the founder little reward, but the richest blessings
to posterity. Yes from it alone can we understand how so many are able to
bear up faithfully under a scanty life which imposes on them nothing but
poverty and frugality, but gives the community the foundations of its existence.
Every worker, every peasant, every inventor, official, etc., who works without
ever being able to achieve any happiness or prosperity for himself, is a
representative of this lofty idea, even if the deeper meaning of his activity
remains hidden in him.What applies to work as the foundation of human sustenance and
all human progress is true to an even greater degree for the defense of
man and his culture. In giving one's own life for the existence of the community
lies the crown of all sense of sacrifice. It is this alone that prevents
what human hands have built from being overthrown by human hands or destroyed
bat Nature. Our own German language possesses a word which magnificently
designates this kind of activity: Pflichterfullung (fulfillment of duty);
it means not to be self-sufficient but to serve the community.The basic attitude from which such activity arises, we call-to
distinguish it from egoism and selfishness-idealism. By this we understand
only the individual's capacity to make sacrifices for the community, for
his fellow men.How necessary it is to keep realizing that idealism does not
represent a superfluous expression of emotion, but that in truth it has
been, is, and will be, the premise for what we designate as human culture,
yes, that it alone created the concept of 'man' It is to this inner attitude
that the Aryan owes his position in this world, and to it the world owes
man; for it alone formed from pure spirit the creative force which, by a
unique pairing of the brutal fist and the intellectual genius, created the
monuments of human culture.Without his idealistic attitude all, even the most dazzling
faculties of the intellect, would remain mere intellect as such
outward appearance without inner value, and never creative force.But, since true idealism is nothing but the subordination of
the interests and life of the individual to the community, and this in turn
is the precondition for the creation of organizational forms of all kinds,
it corresponds in its innermost depths to the ultimate will of Nature. It
alone leads men to voluntary recognition of the privilege of force and strength,
and thus makes them into a dust particle of that order which shapes and
forms the whole universe.The purest idealism is unconsciously equivalent to the deepest
knowledge.How correct this is, and how little true idealism has to do
with playful flights of the imagination, can be seen at once if we let the
unspoiled child, a healthy boy, for example, judge. The same boy who feels
like throwing up I when he hears the tirades of a pacifist 'idealist' is
ready to give his young life for the ideal of his nationality.Here the instinct of knowledge unconsciously obeys the deeper
necessity of the preservation of the species, if necessary at the cost of
the individual, and protests against the visions of the pacifist windbag
who in reality is nothing but a cowardly, though camouflaged, egoist, transgressing
the laws of development; for development requires willingness on the part
of the individual to sacrifice himself for the community, and not the sickly
imaginings of cowardly know-it-alls and critics of Nature.Especially, therefore, at times when the ideal attitude threatens
to disappear, we can at once recognize a diminution of that force which
forms the community and thus creates the premises of culture. As soon as
egoism becomes the ruler of a people, the bands of order are loosened and
in the chase after their own happiness men fall from heaven into a real
hell.Yes, even posterity forgets the men who have only served their
own advantage and praises the heroes who have renounced their own happiness.The mightiest counterpart to the Aryan is represented by the
Jew. In hardly any people in the world is the instinct of self-preservation
developed more strongly than in the so-called 'chosen.' Of this, the mere
fact of the survival of this race may be considered the best proof. Where
is the people which in the last two thousand years has been exposed to so
slight changes of inner disposition, character, etc., as the Jewish people?
What people, finally, has gone through greater upheavals than this one-and
nevertheless issued from the mightiest catastrophes of mankind unchanged?
What an infinitely tough will to live and preserve the species speaks from
these facts !The mental qualities of the Jew have been schooled in the course
of many centuries. Today he passes as 'smart,' and this in a certain sense
he has been at all times. But his intelligence is not the result of his
own development, but of visual instruction through foreigners. For the human
mind cannot climb to the top without steps; for every step upward he needs
the foundation of the past, and this in the comprehensive sense in which
it can be revealed only in general culture. All thinking is based only in
small part on man's own knowledge, and mostly on the experience of the -time
that has preceded. The general cultural level provides the individual man,
without his noticing it as a rule, with such a profusion of preliminary
knowledge that, thus armed, he can more easily take further steps of his
own. The boy of today, for example, grows up among a truly vast number of
technical acquisitions of the last centuries, so that he takes for granted
and no longer pays attention to much that a hundred years ago was a riddle
to even the greatest minds, although for following and understanding our
progress in the field in question it is of decisive importance to him. If
a very genius from the twenties of the past century should suddenly leave
his grave today, it would be harder for him even intellectually to find
his way in the present era than for an average boy of fifteen today. For
he would lack all the infinite preliminary education which our present contemporary
unconsciously, so to speak, assimilates while growing up amidst the manifestations
of our present general civilization.Since the Jew-for reasons which will at once become apparent-was
never in possession of a culture of his own, the foundations of his intellectual
work were always provided by others. His intellect at all times developed
through the cultural world surrounding him.The reverse process never took place.For if the Jewish people's instinct of self-preservation is
not smaller but larger than that of other peoples, if his intellectual faculties
can easily arouse the impression that they are equal to the intellectual
gifts of other races, he lacks completely the most essential requirement
for a cultured people, the idealistic attitude.In the Jewish people the will to self-sacrifice does not go
beyond the individual's naked instinct of self-preservation. Their apparently
great sense of solidarity is based on the very primitive herd instinct that
is seen in many other living creatures in this world. It is a noteworthy
fact that the herd instinct leads to mutual support only as long as a common
danger makes this seem useful or inevitable. The same pack of wolves which
has just fallen on its prey together disintegrates when hunger abates into
its individual beasts. The same is true of horses which try to defend themselves
against an assailant in a body, but scatter again as soon as the danger
is past.It is similar with the Jew. His sense of sacrifice is only apparent.
It exists only as long as the existence of the individual makes it absolutely
necessary. However, as soon as the common enemy is conquered, the danger
threatening all averted and the booty hidden, the apparent harmony of the Jews among themselves ceases, again making way for their old causal tendencies. The Jew is only united when a common danger forces him to be or a common
booty entices him; if these two grounds are lacking, the qualities of the
crassest egoism come into their own, and in the twinkling of an eye the
united people turns into a horde of rats, fighting bloodily among themselves.If the Jews were alone in this world, they would stifle in filth
and offal; they would try to get ahead of one another in hate-filled struggle
and exterminate one another, in so far as the absolute absence of all sense
of self-sacrifice, expressing itself in their cowardice, did not turn battle
into comedy here too.So it is absolutely wrong to infer any ideal sense of sacrifice
in the Jews from the fact that they stand together in struggle, or, better
expressed, in the plundering of their fellow men.Here again the Jew is led by nothing but the naked egoism of
the individual.That is why the Jewish state-which should be the living organism
for preserving and increasing a race-is completely unlimited as to territory.
For a state formation to have a definite spatial setting always presupposes
an idealistic attitude on the part of the state-race, and especially a correct
interpretation of the concept of work. In the exact measure in which this
attitude is lacking, any attempt at forming, even of preserving, a spatially
delimited state fails. And thus the basis on which alone culture can arise
is lacking.Hence the Jewish people, despite all apparent intellectual qualities,
is without any true culture, and especially without any culture of its own.
For what sham culture the Jew today possesses is the property of other peoples,
and for the most part it is ruined in his hands.In judging the Jewish people's attitude on the question of human
culture, the most essential characteristic we must always bear in mind is
that there has never been a Jewish art and accordingly there is none today
either; that above all the two queens of all the arts, architecture and
music, owe nothing original to the Jews. What they do accomplish in the
field of art is either patchwork or intellectual theft. Thus, the Jew lacks
those qualities which distinguish the races that are creative and hence
culturally blessed.To what an extent the Jew takes over foreign culture, imitating
or rather ruining it, can be seen from the fact that he is mostly found
in the art which seems to require least original invention, the art of acting.
But even here, in reality, he is only a ' juggler,' or rather an ape; for
even here he lacks the last touch that is required for real greatness; even
here he is not the creative genius, but a superficial imitator, and all
the twists and tricks that he uses are powerless to conceal the inner lifelessness
of his creative gift. Here the Jewish press most lovingly helps him along
by raising such a roar of hosannahs about even the most mediocre bungler,
just so long as he is a Jew, that the rest of the world actually ends up
by thinking that they have an artist before them, while in truth it is only
a pitiful comedian.No, the Jew possesses no culture-creating force of any sort,
since the idealism, without which there is no true higher development of
man, is not present in him and never was present. Hence his intellect will
never have a constructive effect, but will be destructive, and in very rare
cases perhaps will at most be stimulating, but then as the prototype of
the ' force which always wants evil and nevertheless creates good.' Not
through him does any progress of mankind occur, but in spite of him.Since the Jew never possessed a state with definite territorial
limits and therefore never called a culture his own, the conception arose
that this was a people which should be reckoned among the ranks of the nomads.
This is a fallacy as great as it is dangerous. The nomad does possess a
definitely limited living space, only he does not cultivate it like a sedentary
peasant, but lives from the yield of his herds with which he wanders about
in his territory. The outward reason for this is to be found in the small
fertility of a soil which simply does not permit of settlement. The deeper
cause, however, lies in the disparity between the technical culture of an
age or people and the natural poverty of a living space. There are territories
in which even the Aryan is enabled only by his technology, developed in
the course of more than a thousand years, to live in regular settlements,
to master broad stretches of soil and obtain from it the requirements of
life. If he did not possess this technology, either he would have to avoid
these territories or likewise have to struggle along as a nomad in perpetual
wandering, provided that his thousand-year-old education and habit of settled
residence did not make this seem simply unbearable to him. We must bear
in mind that in the time when the American continent was being opened up,
numerous Aryans fought for their livelihood as trappers, hunters, etc.,
and often in larger troops with wife and children, always on the move, so
that their existence was completely like that of the nomads. But as soon
as their increasing number and better implements permitted them to clear
the wild soil and make a stand against the natives, more and more settlements
sprang up in the land.Probably the Aryan was also first a nomad, settling in the course
of time, but for that very reason he was never a Jew! No, the Jew is no
nomad; for the nomad had also a definite attitude toward the concept of
work which could serve as a basis for his later development in so far as
the necessary intellectual premises were present. In him the basic idealistic
view is present, even if in infinite dilution, hence in his whole being
he may seem strange to the Aryan peoples, but not unattractive. In the Jew,
however, this attitude is not at all present; for that reason he was never
a nomad, but only and always a parasite in the body of other peoples. That
he sometimes left his previous living space has nothing to do with his own
purpose, but results from the fact that from time to time he was thrown
out by the host nations he had misused. His spreading is a typical phenomenon
for all parasites; he always seeks a new feeding ground for his race.This, however, has nothing to do with nomadism, for the reason
that a Jew never thinks of leaving a territory Phat he has occupied,
but remains where he is, and he sits so fast that even by force it is very
hard to drive him out. His extension to ever-new countries occurs only in
the moment in which certain conditions for his existence are there present,
without which- unlike the nomad-he would not change his residence. He is
and remains the typical parasite, a sponger who like a noxious bacillus
keeps spreading as soon as a favorable medium invites him. And the effect
of his existence is also like that of spongers: wherever he appears, the
host people dies out after a shorter or longer period.Thus, the Jew of all times has lived in the states of other
peoples, and there formed his own state, which, to be sure, habitually sailed
under the disguise of 'religious community' as long as outward circumstances
made a complete revelation of his nature seem inadvisable. But as soon as
he felt strong enough to do without the protective cloak, he always dropped
the veil and suddenly became what so many of the others previously did not
want to believe and see: the Jew.The Jew's life as a parasite in the body of other nations and
states explains a characteristic which once caused Schopenhauer, as has
already been mentioned, to call him the 'great master in lying.' Existence
impels the Jew to lies and to lie perpetually, just as it compels the inhabitants
of the northern countries to wear warm clothing.His life within other peoples can only endure for any length
of time if he succeeds in arousing the opinion that he is not a.people but
a 'religious community,' though of a special sort.And this is the first great lie.In order to carry on his existence as a parasite on other peoples,
he is forced to deny his inner nature. The more intelligent the individual
Jew is, the more he will succeed in this deception. Indeed, things can go
so far that large parts of the host people will end by seriously believing
that the Jew is really a Frenchman or an Englishman, a German or an Italian,
though of a special religious faith. Especially state authorities, which
always seem animated by the historical fraction of wisdom, most easily fall
a victim to this infinite deception. Independent thinking sometimes seems
to these circles a true sin against holy advancement, so that we may not
be surprised if even today a Bavarian state ministry, for example, still
has not the faintest idea that the Jews are members of a people and not
of a ' religion' though a glance at the Jew's own newspapers should indicate
this even to the most modest mind. The Jewish Echo is not yet an official
organ, of course, and consequently is unauthoritative as far as the intelligence
of one of these government potentates is concerned.The Jew has always been a people with definite racial characteristics
and never a religion; only in order to get ahead he early sought for a means
which could distract unpleasant attention from his person. And what would
have been more expedient and at the same time more innocent than the 'embezzled'
concept of a religious community? For here, too, everything is borrowed
or rather stolen. Due to his own original special nature, the Jew cannot
possess a religious institution, if for no other reason because he lacks
idealism in any form, and hence belief in a hereafter is absolutely foreign
to him. And a religion in the Aryan sense cannot be imagined which lacks
the conviction of survival after death in some form. Indeed, the Talmud
is not a book to prepare a man for the hereafter, but only for a practical
and profitable life in this world.The Jewish religious doctrine consists primarily in prescriptions
for keeping the blood of Jewry pure and for regulating the relation of Jews
among themselves, but even more with the rest of the world; in other words,
with non-Jews. But even here it is by no means ethical problems that are
involved, but extremely modest economic ones. Concerning the moral value
of Jewish religious instruction, there are today and have been at all times
rather exhaustive studies (not by Jews; the drivel of the Jews themselves
on the subject is, of course, adapted to its purpose) which make this kind
of religion seem positively monstrous according to Aryan conceptions. The
best characterization is provided by the product of this religious education,
the Jew himself. His life is only of this world, and his spirit is inwardly
as alien to true Christianity as his nature two thousand years previous
was to the great founder of the new doctrine. Of course, the latter made
no secret of his attitude toward the Jewish people, and when necessary he
even took to the whip to drive from the temple of the Lord this adversary
of all humanity, who then as always saw in religion nothing but an instrument
for his business existence. In return, Christ was nailed to the cross, while
our present-day party Christians debase themselves to begging for Jewish
votes at elections and later try to arrange political swindles with atheistic
Jewish parties-and this against their own nation.On this first and greatest lie, that the Jews are not a race
but a religion, more and more lies are based in necessary consequence. Among
them is the lie with regard to the language of the Jew. For him it is not
a means for expressing his thoughts, but a means for concealing them. When
he speaks French, he thinks Jewish, and while he turns out German verses,
in his life he only expresses the nature of his nationality. As long as
the Jew has not become the master of the other peoples, he must speak their
languages whether he likes it or not, but as soon as they became his slaves,
they would all have to learn a universal language (Esperanto, for instance!),
so that by this additional means the Jews could more easily dominate them!To what an extent the whole existence of this people is based
on a continuous lie is shown incomparably by the Protocols of the Wise Men
of Zion, so infinitely hated by the Jews. They are based on a forgery, the
Frankfurter Zeitung moans and screams once every week: the best proof that
they are authentic. What many Jews may do unconsciously is here consciously
exposed. And that is what matters. It is completely indifferent from what
Jewish brain these disclosures originate; the important thing is that with
positively terrifying certainty they reveal the nature and activity of the
Jewish people and expose their inner contexts as well as their ultimate
final aims. The best criticism applied to them, however, is reality. Anyone
who examines the historical development of the last hundred years from the
standpoint of this book will at once understand the screaming of the Jewish
press. For once this book has become the common property of a people, the
Jewish menace may be considered as broken.The best way to know the Jew is to study the road which he has
taken within the body of other peoples in the course of the centuries. It
suffices to follow this up in only one example, to arrive at the necessary
realizations. As his development has always and at all times been the same,
just as that of the peoples corroded by him has also been the same, it is
advisable in such an examination to divide his development into definite
sections which in this case for the sake of simplicity I designate alphabetically.
The first Jews came to ancient Germany in the course of the advance of the
Romans, and as always they came as merchants. In the storms of the migrations,
however, they seem to have disappeared again, and thus the time of the first
Germanic state formation may be viewed as the beginning of a new and this
time lasting Jewification of Central and Northern Europe. A development
set in which has always been the same or similar wherever the Jews encountered
Aryan peoples.(a) With the appearance of the first fixed settlement, the Jew
is suddenly 'at hand.' He comes as a merchant and at first attaches little
importance to the concealment of his nationality. He is still a Jew, partly
perhaps among other reasons because the outward racial difference between
himself and the host people is too great, his linguistic knowledge still
too small, and the cohesion of the host people too sharp for him to dare
to try to appear as anything else than a foreign merchant. With his dexterity
and the inexperience of his host people, the retention of his character
as a Jew represents no disadvantage for him, but rather an advantage; the
stranger is given a friendly reception.(b) Gradually he begins slowly to become active in economic
life, not as a producer, but exclusively as a middleman. With his thousand-year-old
mercantile dexterity he is far superior to the still helpless, and above
all boundlessly honest, Aryans, so that in a short time commerce threatens
to become his monopoly. He begins to lend money and as always at usurious
interest. As a matter of fact, he thereby introduces interest. The danger
of this new institution is not recognized at first, but because of its momentary
advantages is even welcomed.(c) The Jew has now become a steady resident; that is, he settles
special sections of the cities and villages and more and more constitutes
a state within a state. He regards commerce as well as all financial transactions
as his own special privilege which he ruthlessly exploits.(d) Finance and commerce have become his complete monopoly.
His usurious rates of interest finally arouse resistance, the rest of his
increasing effrontery indignation, his wealth envy. The cup is full to overflowing
when he draws the soil into the sphere of his commercial objects and degrades
it to the level of a commodity to be sold or rather traded. Since he himself
never cultivates the soil, but regards it only as a property to be exploited
on which the peasant can well remain, though amid the most miserable extortions
on the part of his new master, the aversion against him gradually increases
to open hatred. His blood-sucking tyranny becomes so great that excesses
against him occur. People begin to look at the foreigner more and more closely
and discover more and more repulsive traits and characteristics in him until
the cleft becomes unbridgeable.At times of the bitterest distress, fury against him finally
breaks out, and the plundered and ruined masses begin to defend themselves
against the scourge of God. In the course of a few centuries they have come
to know him, and now they feel that the mere fact of his existence is as
bad as the plague.(e) Now the Jew begins to reveal his true qualities. With repulsive
flattery he approaches the governments, puts his money to work, and in this
way always manages to secure new license to plunder his victims. Even though
the rage of the people sometimes flares high against the eternal blood-sucker,
it does not in the least prevent him from reappearing in a few years in
the place he had hardly left and beginning the old life all over again.
No persecution can deter him from his type of human exploitation, none can
drive him away; after every persecution he is back again in a short time,
and just the same as before.To prevent the very worst, at least, the people begin to withdraw
the soil from his usurious hands by making it legally impossible for him
to acquire soil.(f) Proportionately as the power of the princes begins to mount,
he pushes closer and closer to them. He begs for ' patents ' and 'privileges,'
which the lords, always in financial straits, are glad to give him for suitable
payment. However much this may cost him, he recovers the money he has spent
in a few years through interest and compound interest. A true blood-sucker
that attaches himself to the body of the unhappy people and cannot be picked
off until the princes themselves again need money and with their own exalted
hand tap off the blood he has sucked from them.This game is repeated again and again, and in it the role of
the so-called 'German princes' is just as miserable as that of the Jews
themselves. These lords were really God's punishment for their beloved peoples
and find their parallels only in the various ministers of the present time.It is thanks to the German princes that the German nation was
unable to redeem itself for good from the Jewish menace. In this, too, unfortunately,
nothing changed as time went on; all they obtained from the Jew was the
thousandfold reward for the sins they had once committed against their peoples.
They made a pact with the devil and landed in hell.(g) And so, his ensnarement of the princes leads to their ruin.
Slowly but surely their relation to the peoples loosens in the measure in
which they cease to serve the people's interests and instead become mere
exploiters of their subjects. The Jew well knows what their end will be
and tries to hasten it as much as possible. He himself adds to their financial
straits by alienating them more and more from their true tasks, by crawling
around them with the vilest flattery, by encouraging them in vices, and
thus making himself more and more indispensable to them. With his deftness,
or rather unscrupulousness, in all money matters he is able to squeeze,
yes, to grind, more and more money out of the plundered subjects, who in
shorter and shorter intervals go the way of all flesh. Thus every court
has its 'court Jew'-as the monsters are called who torment the 'beloved
people' to despair and prepare eternal pleasures for the princes. Who then
can be surprised that these ornaments of the human race ended up by being
ornamented, or rather decorated, in the literal sense, and rose to the hereditary
nobility, helping not only to make this institution ridiculous, but even
to poison it?Now, it goes without saying, he can really make use of his position
for his own advancement.Finally he needs only to have himself baptized to possess himself
of all the possibilities and rights of the natives of the country. Not seldom
he concludes this deal to the joy of the churches over the son they have
won and of Israel over the successful swindle.(h) Within Jewry a change now begins to take place. Up till
now they have been Jews; that is, they attach no importance to appearing
to be something else, which they were unable to do, anyway, because of the
very distinct racial characteristics on both sides. At the time of Frederick
the Great it still entered no one's head to regard the Jew as anything else
but a 'foreign' people, and Goethe was still horrified at the thought that
in future marriage between Christians and Jews would no longer be forbidden
by law. And Goethe, by God, was no reactionary, let alone a helot; I what
spoke out of him was only the voice of the blood and of reason. Thus-despite
all the shameful actions of the courts-the people instinctively saw in the
Jew a foreign element and took a corresponding attitude toward him.But now all this was to change. In the course of more than a
thousand years he has learned the language of the host people to such an
extent that he now thinks he can venture in future to emphasize his Judaism
less and place his 'Germanism' more in the foreground; for ridiculous, nay,
insane, as it may seem at first, he nevertheless has the effrontery to turn
'Germanic,' in this case a 'German.' With this begins one of the most infamous
deceptions that anyone could conceive of. Since of Germanism he possesses
really nothing but the art of stammering its language -and in the most frightful
way-but apart from this has never mixed with the Germans, his whole Germanism
rests on the language alone. Race, however, does not lie in the language,
but exclusively in the blood, which no one knows better than the Jew, who
attaches very little importance to the preservation of his language, but
all importance to keeping his blood pure. A man can change his language
without any trouble-that is, he can use another language; but in his new
language he will express the old ideas; his inner nature is not changed.
This is best shown by the Jew who can speak a thousand languages and nevertheless
remains a Jew. His traits of character have remained the same, whether two
thousand years ago as a grain dealer in Ostia, speaking Roman, or whether
as a flour profiteer of today, jabbering German with a Jewish accent. It
is always the same Jew. That this obvious fact is not understood by a ministerial
secretary or higher police official is also self-evident, for there is scarcely
any creature with less instinct and intelligence running around in the world
today than these servants of our present model state authority.The reason why the Jew decides suddenly to become a 'German
' is obvious. He feels that the power of the princes is slowly tottering
and therefore tries at an early time to get a platform beneath his feet.
Furthermore, his financial domination of the whole economy has advanced
so far that without possession of all 'civil' rights he can no longer support
the gigantic edifice, or at any rate, no further increase of his influence
is possible. And he desires both of these; for the higher he climbs, the
more alluring his old goal that was once promised him rises from the veil
of the past, and with feverish avidity his keenest minds see the dream of
world domination tangibly approaching. And so his sole effort is directed
toward obtaining full possession of 'civil' rights.This is the reason for his emancipation from the ghetto.(i) So from the court Jew there-gradually develops the people's
Jew, which means, of course: the Jew remains as before in the entourage
of the high lords; in fact,-he tries to push his way even more into their
circle; but at the same time another part of his race makes friends with
the ' beloved people. ' If we consider how greatly he has sinned against
the masses in the course of the centuries, how he has squeezed and sucked
their blood again and again; if furthermore, we consider how the people
gradually learned to hate him for this, and ended up by regarding his existence
as nothing but a punishment of Heaven for the other peoples, we can understand
how hard this shift must be for the Jew. Yes, it is an arduous task suddenly
to present himself to his flayed victims as a 'friend of mankind.'First, therefore, he goes.about making up to the people for
his previous sins against them. He begins his career as the 'benefactor'
of mankind. Since his new benevolence has a practical foundation, he cannot
very well adhere to the old Biblical recommendation, that the left hand
should not know what the right hand giveth; no, whether he likes it or not,
he must reconcile himself to letting as many people as possible know how
deeply he feels the sufferings of the masses and all the sacrifices that
he himself is making to combat them. With this 'modesty ' which is inborn
in him, he blares out his merits to the rest of the world until people really
begin to believe in them. Anyone who does not believe in them is doing him
a bitter injustice. In a short time he begins to twist things around to
make it look as if all the injustice in the world had always been done to
him and not the other way around. The very stupid believe this and then
they just can't help but pity the poor 'unfortunate.'In addition, it should be remarked here that the Jew, despite
all his love of sacrifice, naturally never becomes personally impoverished.
He knows how to manage; sometimes, indeed, his charity is really comparable
to fertilizer, which is not strewn on the field for love of the field, but
with a view to the farmer's own future benefit. In any case, everyone knows
in a comparatively short time that the Jew has become a 'benefactor and
friend of mankind.' What a strange transformation!But what is more or less taken for granted in others arouses
the greatest astonishment and in many distinct admiration for this very
reason. So it happens that he gets much more credit for every such action
than the rest of mankind, in whom it is taken for granted.But even more: all at once the Jew also becomes liberal and
begins to rave about the necessary progress of mankind.
Slowly he makes himself the spokesman of a new era.Also, of course, he destroys more and more thoroughly the foundations
of any economy that will really benefit the people. By way of stock shares
he pushes his way into the circuit of national production which he turns
into a purchasable or rather tradable object, thus robbing the enterprises
of the foundations of a personal ownership. Between employer and employee
there arises that inner estrangement which later leads to political class
division.Finally, the Jewish influence on economic affairs grows with
terrifying speed through the stock exchange. He becomes the owner, or at
least the controller, of the national labor force.To strengthen his political position he tries to tear down the
racial and civil barriers which for a time continue to restrain him at every
step. To this end he fights with all the tenacity innate in him for religious
tolerance-and in Freemasonry, which has succumbed to him completely, he
has an excellent instrument with which to fight for his aims and put them
across. The governing circles and the higher strata of the political and
economic bourgeoisie are brought into his nets by the strings of Freemasonry,
and never need to suspect what is happeningOnly the deeper and broader strata of the people as such, or
rather that class which is beginning to wake up and fight for its rights
and freedom, cannot yet be sufficiently taken in by these methods. But this
is more necessary than anything else; for the Jew feels that the possibility
of his rising to a dominant role exists only if there is someone ahead of
him to dear the way; and this someone he thinks he can recognize in the
bourgeoisie, in their broadest strata in fact. The glovemakers and linen
weavers, however, cannot be caught in the fine net of Freemasonry; no, for
them coarser but no less drastic means must be employed. Thus Freemasonry
is joined by a second weapon in the service of the Jews: the press. With
all his perseverance and dexterity he seizes possession of it. With it he
slowly begins to grip and ensnare, to guide and to push all public life,
since he is in a position to create and direct that power which, under the
name of 'public opinion,' IS better known today than a few decades ago.In this he always represents himself personally as having an
infinite thirst for knowledge, praises all progress, mostly, to be sure,
the progress that leads to the ruin of others; for he judges all knowledge
and all development only according to its possibilities for advancing his
nation, and where this is lacking, he is the inexorable mortal enemy of
all light, a hater of all true culture. He uses all the knowledge he acquires
in the schools of other peoples, exclusively for the benefit of his race.And this nationality he guards as never before. While he seems
to overflow with 'enlightenment,' 'progress,' 'freedom,' 'humanity,' etc.,
he himself practices the severest segregation of his race. To be sure, he
sometimes palms off his women on influential Christians, but as a matter
of principle he always keeps his male line pure. He poisons the blood of
others, but preserves his own. The Jew almost never marries a Christian
woman; it is the Christian who marries a Jewess. The bastards, however,
take after the Jewish side. Especially a part of the high nobility degenerates
completely. The Jew is perfectly aware of this, and therefore systematically
carries on this mode of ' disarming ' the intellectual leader class of his
racial adversaries. In order to mask his activity and lull his victims,
however, he talks more and more of the equality of all men without regard
to race and color. The fools begin to believe him.Since, however, his whole being still has too strong a smell
of the foreign for the broad masses of the people in particular to fall
readily into his nets, he has his press give a picture of him which is as
little in keeping with reality as conversely it serves his desired purpose.
His comic papers especially strive to represent the Jews as a harmless little
people, with their own peculiarities, of course-like other peoples as well-but
even in their gestures, which seem a little strange, perhaps, giving signs
of a possibly ludicrous, but always thoroughly honest and benevolent, soul.
And the constant effort is to make him seem almost more 'insignificant'
than dangerous.His ultimate goal in this stage is the victory of ' democracy,'
or, as he understands it: the rule of parliamentarianism. It is most compatible
with his requirements; for it excludes the personality-and puts in its place
the majority characterized by stupidity, incompetence, and last but not
least, cowardice. The final result will be the overthrow of the monarchy, which
is now sooner or later bound to occur.(j) The tremendous economic development leads to a change in
the social stratification of the people. The small craftsman slowly dies
out, and as a result the worker's possibility of achieving an independent
existence becomes rarer and rarer; in consequence the worker becomes visibly
proletarianized. There arises the industrial ' factory worker ' whose most
essential characteristic is to be sought in the fact that he hardly ever
is in a position to found an existence of his own in later life. He is propertyless
in the truest sense of the word. His old age is a torment and can scarcely
be designated as living.Once before, a similar situation was created, which pressed
urgently for a solution and also found one. The peasants and artisans had
slowly been joined by the officials and salaried workers-particularly of
the state-as a new class. They, too, were propertyless in the truest sense
of the word. The state finally found a way out of this unhealthy condition
by assuming the care of the state employee who could not himself provide
for his old age; it introduced the pension. Slowly, more and more enterprises
followed this example, so that nearly every regularly employed brain-worker
draws a pension in later life, provided the concern he works in has achieved
or surpassed a certain size. Only by safeguarding the state official in
his old age could he be taught the selfless devotion to duty which in the
pre-War period was the most eminent quality of German officialdom.In this way a whole class that had remained propertyless was
wisely snatched away from social misery and articulated with the body of
the people.Now this question again, and this time on a much larger scale,
faced the state and the nation. More and more masses of people, numbering
millions, moved from peasant villages to the larger cities to earn their
bread as factory workers in the newly established industries. The working
and living conditions of the new class were more than dismal. If nothing
else, the more or less mechanical transference of the old artisan's or even
peasant's working methods to the new form was by no means suitable. The
work done by these men could not be compared with the exertions which the
industrial factory worker has to perform. In the old handicraft, this may
not have been very important, but in the new working methods it was all
the more so. The formal transference of the old working hours to the industrial
large-scale enterprise was positively catastrophic, for the actual work
done before was but little in view of the absence of our present intensive
working methods. Thus, though previously the fourteen-or even fifteen-hour
working day had been bearable, it certainly ceased to be bearable at a time
when every minute was exploited to the fullest. The result of this senseless
transference of the old working hours to the new industrial activity was
really unfortunate in two respects: the worker's health was undermined and
his faith in a higher justice destroyed. To this finally was added the miserable
wages on the one hand and the employer's correspondingly and obviously so
vastly superior position on the other.In the country there could be no social question, since master
and hired hand did the same work and above all ate out of the same bowls.
But this, too, changed.The separation of worker and employer now seems complete in
all fields of life. How far the inner Judaization of our people has progressed
can be seen from the small respect, if not contempt, that is accorded to
manual labor. This is not German. It took the foreignization of our life,
which was in truth a Jewification, to transform the old respect for manual
work into a certain contempt for all physical labor.Thus, there actually comes into being a new class enjoying very
little respect, and one day the question must arise whether the nation would
possess the strength to articulate the new class into general society, or
whether the social difference would broaden into a classlike cleavage.But one thing is certain: the new class did not count the worst
elements in its ranks, but on the contrary definitely the most
energetic elements. The overrefinements of so-called culture had not yet
exerted their disintegrating and destructive effects. The broad mass of
the new class was not yet infected with the poison of pacifist weakness;
it was robust and if necessary even brutal.While the bourgeoisie is not at all concerned about this all-important
question, but indifferently lets things slide, the Jew seizes the unlimited
opportunity it offers for the future; while on the one hand he organizes
capitalistic methods of human exploitation to their ultimate consequence,
he approaches the very victims of his spirit and his activity and in a short
time becomes the leader of their struggle against himself. 'Against himself'
is only figuratively speaking; for the great master of lies understands
as always how to make himself appear to be the pure one and to load the
blame on others. Since he has th gall to lead the masses, it never even
enters their heads that this might be the most in
famous betrayal of all times.And yet it was.Scarcely has the new class grown out of the general economic
shift than the Jew, clearly and distinctly, realizes that it can open the
way for his own further advancement. First, he used the bourgeoisie as a
battering-ram against the feudal world, then the worker against the bourgeois
world. If formerly he knew how to swindle his way to civil rights in the
shadow of the bourgeoisie, now he hopes to find the road to his own domination
in the worker's struggle for existence.
From now on the worker has no other task but to fight for the future of
the Jewish people. Unconsciously he is harnessed to the service of the power
which he thinks he is combating. He is seemingly allowed to attack capital,
and this is the easiest way of making him fight for it. In this the Jew
keeps up an outcry against international capital and in truth he means the
national economy which must be demolished in order that the international
stock exchange can triumph over its dead body.Here the Jew's procedure is as follows:He approaches the worker, simulates pity with his fate, or even
indignation at his lot of misery and poverty, thus gaining his confidence.
He takes pains to study all the various real or imaginary hardships of his
life-and to arouse his longing for a change in such an existence. With infinite
shrewdness he fans the need for social justice, somehow slumbering in every
Aryan man, into hatred against those who have been better favored by fortune,
and thus gives the struggle for the elimination of social evils a very definite
philosophical stamp. He establishes the Marxist doctrine.By presenting it as inseparably bound up with a number of socially
just demands, he promotes its spread and conversely the aversion of decent
people to fulfill demands which, advanced in such form and company, seem
from the outset unjust and impossible to fulfill. For under this cloak of
purely social ideas truly diabolic purposes are hidden, yes, they are publicly
proclaimed with the most insolent frankness. This theory represents an inseparable
mixture of reason and human madness, but always in such a way that only
the lunacy can become reality and never the reason. By the categorical rejection
of the personality and hence of the nation and its racial content, it destroys
the elementary foundations of all human culture which is dependent on just
these factors. This is the true inner kernel of the Marxist philosophy in
so far as this figment of a criminal brain can be designated as a 'philosophy.'
With the shattering of the personality and the race, the essential obstacle
is removed to the domination of the inferior being-and this is the Jew.Precisely in political and economic madness lies the sense of
this doctrine. For this prevents all truly intelligent people from entering
its service, while those who are intellectually less active and poorly educated
in economics hasten to it with flying colors. The intellectuals for this
movement-for even this movement needs intellectuals for its existence-are
' sacrificed ' by the Jew from his own ranks.Thus there arises a pure movement entirely of manual workers
under Jewish leadership, apparently aiming to improve the situation of the
worker, but in truth planning the enslavement and with it the destruction
of all non-Jewish peoples.The general pacifistic paralysis of the national instinct of
selfpreservation begun by Freemasonry in the circles of the so-called intelligentsia
is transmitted to the broad masses and above all to the bourgeoisie by the
activity of the big papers which today are always Jewish. Added to these
two weapons of disintegration comes a third and by far the most terrible,
the organization of brute force. As a shock and storm troop, Marxism is
intended to finish off what the preparatory softening up with the first
two weapons has made ripe for collapse.Here we have teamwork that is positively brilliant-and we need
really not be surprised if in confronting it those very institutions which
always like to represent themselves as the pillars of a more or less legendary
state authority hold up least. It is in our high and highest state officialdom
that the Jew has at all times (aside from a few exceptions) found the most
compliant abettor of his work of disintegration. Cringing submissiveness
to superiors and high-handed arrogance to inferiors distinguish this class
to the same degree as a narrow-mindedness that often cries to high Heaven
and is only exceeded by a self-conceit that is sometimes positively amazing.And these are qualities that the Jew needs in our authorities
and loves accordingly.The practical struggle which now begins, sketched in broad outlines,
takes the following course:In keeping with the ultimate aims of the Jewish struggle, which
are not exhausted in the mere economic conquest of the world, but also demand
its political subjugation, the Jew divides the organization of his Marxist
world doctrine into two halves which, apparently separate from one another,
in truth form an inseparable whole: the political and the trade-union movement.The trade-union movement does the recruiting. In the hard struggle
for existence which the worker must carry on, thanks to the greed and shortsightedness
of many employers, it offers him aid and protection, and thus the possibility
of winning better living conditions. If, at a time when the organized national
community, the state, concerns itself with him little or not at all, the
worker does not want to hand over the defense of his vital human rights
to the blind caprice of people who in part have little sense of responsibility
and are often heartless to boot, he must take their defense into his own
hands. In exact proportion as the so-called national bourgeoisie, blinded
by financial interests, sets the heaviest obstacles in the path of this
struggle for existence and not only resists all attempts at shortening the
inhumanly long working day, abolishing child labor, safeguarding and protecting
the woman, improving sanitary conditions in the workshops and homes, but
often actually sabotages them, the shrewder Jew takes the oppressed people
under his wing. Gradually he be comes the leader of the trade-union movement,
all the more easily as he is not interested in really eliminating social
evils in an honest sense, but only in training an economic storm troop,
blindly devoted to him, with which to destroy the national economic independence.
For while the conduct of a healthy social policy will consistently move
between the aims of preserving the national health on the one hand and safeguarding
an independent national economy on the other, for the Jew in his struggle
these two criteria not only cease to exist, but their elimination, among
other things, is his life goal. He desires, not the preservation of an independent
national economy, but its destruction. Consequently, no pangs of conscience
can prevent him as a leader of the trade-union movement from raising demands
which not only overshoot the goal, but whose fulfillment is either impossible
for practical purposes or means the ruin of the national economy. Moreover,
he does not want to have a healthy, sturdy race before him, but a rickety
herd capable of being subjugated. This desire again permits him to raise
demands of the most senseless kind whose practical fulfillment he himself
knows to be impossible and which, therefore, could not lead to any change
in things, but at most to a wild incitement of the masses. And that is what
he is interested in and not a true and honest improvement of social conditions.Hence the Jewish leadership in trade-union affairs remains uncontested
until an enormous work of enlightenment influences the broad masses and
sets them right about their never-ending misery, or else the state disposes
of the Jew and his work. For as long as the insight of the masses remains
as slight as now and the state as indifferent as today, these masses will
always be first to follow the man who in economic matters offers the most
shameless promises. And in this the Jew is a master. For in his entire activity
he is restrained by no moral scruples!And so he inevitably drives every competitor in this sphere
from the field in a short time. In keeping with all his inner rapacious
brutality, he at once teaches the trade-union movement the most brutal use
of violence. If anyone by his intelligence resists the Jewish lures, his
defiance and understanding are broken by terror. The success of such an
activity is enormous.Actually the Jew by means of the trade union, which could be
a blessing for the nation, shatters the foundations of the national economy.Parallel with this, the political organization advances.It plays hand in glove with the trade-union movement, for the
latter prepares the masses for political organization, in fact, lashes them
into it with violence and coercion. Furthermore, it is the permanent financial
source from which the political organization feeds its enormous apparatus.
It is the organ controlling the political activity of the individual and
does the pandering in all big demonstrations of a political nature. In the
end it no longer comes out for political interests at all, but places its
chief instrument of struggle, the cessation of work in the form of a mass
and general strike, in the service of the political idea.By the creation of a press whose content is adapted to the intellectual
horizon of the least educated people, the political and trade-union organization
finally obtains the agitational institution by which the lowest strata of
the nation are made ripe for the most reckless acts. Its function is not
to lead people out of the swamp of a base mentality to a higher stage, but
to cater to their lowest instincts. Since the masses are as mentally lazy
as they are sometimes presumptuous, this is a business as speculative as
it is profitable.It is this press, above all, which wages a positively fanatical
and slanderous struggle, tearing down everything which can be regarded as
a support of national independence, cultural elevation, and the economic
independence of the nation.Above all, it hammers away at the characters of all those who
will not bow down to the Jewish presumption to dominate, or whose ability
and genius in themselves seem a danger to the Jew. For to be hated by the
Jew it is not necessary to combat him; no, it suffices if he suspects that
someone might even conceive the idea of combating him some time or that
on the strength of his superior genius he is an augmenter of the power and
greatness of a nationality hostile to the Jew.His unfailing instinct in such things scents the original soul
l in everyone, and his hostility is assured to anyone who is not spirit
of his spirit. Since the Jew is not the attacked but the attacker, not only
anyone who attacks passes as his enemy, but also anyone who resists him.
But the means with which he seeks to break such reckless but upright souls
is not honest warfare, but lies and slander.Here he stops at nothing, and in his vileness he becomes so
gigantic that no one need be surprised if among our people the personification
of the devil as the symbol of all evil assumes the living shape of the Jew.The ignorance of the broad masses about the inner nature of
the Jew, the lack of instinct and narrow-mindedness of our upper classes,
make the people an easy victim for this Jewish campaign of lies.While from innate cowardice the upper classes turn away from
a man whom the Jew attacks with lies and slander, the broad masses from
stupidity or simplicity believe everything. The state authorities either
cloak themselves in silence or, what usually happens, in order to put an
end to the Jewish press campaign, they persecute the unjustly attacked,
which, in the eyes of such an official ass, passes as the preservation of
state authority and the safeguarding of law and order.Slowly fear of the Marxist weapon of Jewry descends like a nightmare
on the mind and soul of decent people.They begin to tremble before the terrible enemy and thus have
become his final victim.The Jew's domination in the state seems so assured that now
not only can he call himself a Jew again, but he ruthlessly admits his ultimate
national and political designs. A section of his race openly owns itself
to be a foreign people, yet even here they lie. For while the Zionists try
to make the rest of the world believe that the national consciousness of
the Jew finds its satisfaction in the creation of a Palestinian state, the
Jews again slyly dupe the dumb Goyim. It doesn't even enter their heads
to build up a Jewish state in Palestine for the purpose of living there;
all they want is a central organization for their international world swindle,
endowed with its own sovereign rights and removed from the intervention
of other states: a haven for convicted scoundrels and a university for budding
crooks.It is a sign of their rising confidence and sense of security
that at a time when one section is still playing the German, Frenchman,
or Englishman, the other with open effrontery comes out as the Jewish race.How close they see approaching victory can be seen by the hideous
aspect which their relations with the members of
other peoples takes on.With satanic joy in his face, the black-haired Jewish youth
lurks in wait for the unsuspecting girl whom he defiles with his blood,
thus stealing her from her people. With every means he tries to destroy
the racial foundations of the people he has set out to subjugate. Just as
he himself systematically ruins women and girls, he does not shrink back
from pulling down the blood barriers for others, even on a large scale.
It was and it is Jews who bring the Negroes into the Rhineland, always with
the same secret thought and clear aim of ruining the hated white race by
the necessarily resulting bastardization, throwing it down from its cultural
and political height, and himself rising to be its master.For a racially pure people which is conscious of its blood can
never be enslaved by the Jew. In this world he will forever be master over
bastards and bastards alone.And so he tries systematically to lower the racial level by
a continuous poisoning of individuals.And in politics he begins to replace the idea of democracy by
the dictatorship of the proletariat.In the organized mass of Marxism he has found the weapon which
lets him dispense with democracy and in its stead allows him to subjugate
and govern the peoples with a dictatorial and brutal fist.He works systematically for revolutionization in a twofold sense:
economic and political.Around peoples who offer too violent a resistance to attack
from within he weaves a net of enemies, thanks to his international influence,
incites them to war, and finally, if necessary, plants the flag of revolution
on the very battlefields.In economics he undermines the states until the social enterprises
which have become unprofitable are taken from the state and subjected to
his financial control.In the political field he refuses the state the means for its
selfpreservation, destroys the foundations of all national self-maintenance
and defense, destroys faith in the leadership, scoffs at its history and
past, and drags everything that is truly great into the gutter.Culturally he contaminates art, literature, the theater, makes
a mockery of natural feeling, overthrows all concepts of beauty and sublimity,
of the noble and the good, and instead drags men down into the sphere of
his own base nature.
Religion is ridiculed, ethics and morality represented as outmoded, until
the last props of a nation in its struggle for existence in this world have
fallen.(e) Now begins the great last revolution. In gaining political
power the Jew casts off the few cloaks that he still wears. The democratic
people's Jew becomes the blood-Jew and tyrant over peoples. In a few years
he tries to exterminate the national intelligentsia and by robbing the peoples
of their natural intellectual leadership makes them ripe for the slave's
lot of permanent subjugation.The most frightful example of this kind is offered by Russia, where he killed or starved about thirty million people with positively fanatical savagery, in part amid inhuman tortures, in order to give a gang of Jewish journalists and stock exchange bandits domination over a great people.The end is not only the end of the freedom of the peoples oppressed by the Jew, but also the end of this parasite upon the nations. After the death of his victim, the vampire sooner or later dies too.If we pass all the causes of the German collapse in review,
the ultimate and most decisive remains the failure to recognize the racial
problem and especially the Jewish menace.The defeats on the battlefield in August, 1918, would have been child's play to bear. They stood in no proportion to the victories of our people. It was not they that caused our downfall; no, it was brought about by that power which prepared these defeats by systematically over many decades robbing our people of the political and moral instincts and forces which alone make nations capable and hence worthy of existence.In heedlessly ignoring -the question of the preservation of
the racial foundations of our nation, the old Reich disregarded the sole
right which gives life in this world. Peoples which bastardize themselves,
or let themselves be bastardized, sin against the will of eternal Providence,
and when their ruin is encompassed by a stronger enemy it is not an injustice
done to them, but only the restoration of justice. If a people no longer
wants to respect the Nature-given qualities of its being which root in its
blood, it has no further right to complain over the loss of its earthly
existence.Everything on this earth is capable of improvement. Every defeat can become
the father of a subsequent victory, every lost war the cause of a later
resurgence, every hardship the fertilization of human energy, and from every
oppression the forces for a new spiritual rebirth can comes as long as the
blood is preserved pure.The lost purity of the blood alone destroys inner happiness
forever, plunges man into the abyss for all time, and the consequences can
never more be eliminated from body and spirit.Only by examining and comparing all other problems of life in
the light of this one question shall we see how absurdly petty they are
by this standard. They are all limited in time-but the question of preserving
or not preserving the purity of the blood will endure as long as there are
men.All really significant symptoms of decay of the pre-War period
can in the last analysis be reduced to racial causes.Whether we consider questions of general justice or cankers
of economic life, symptoms of cultural decline or processes of political
degeneration, questions of faulty schooling or the bad influence exerted
on grown-ups by the press, etc., everywhere and always it is fundamentally
the disregard of the racial needs of our own people or failure to see a
foreign racial menace.
And that is why all attempts at reform, all works for social relief and
political exertions, all economic expansion and every apparent increase
of intellectual knowledge were futile as far as their results were concerned.
The nation, and the organism which enables l and preserves its life on this
earth, the state, did not grow inwardly healthier, but obviously languished
more and more. All the illusory prosperity of the old Reich could not hide
its inner weakness, and every attempt really to strengthen the Reich failed
again and again, due to disregarding the most important question.It would be a mistake to believe that the adherents of the various
political tendencies which were tinkering around on the German national
body-yes, even a certain section of the leaders-were bad or malevolent men
in themselves. Their activity was condemned to sterility only because the
best of them saw at most the forms of our general disease and tried to combat
them, but blindly ignored the virus. Anyone who systematically follows the
old Reich's line of political development is bound to arrive, upon calm
examination, at the realization that even at the time of the unification,
hence the rise of the German nation, the inner decay was already in full
swing, and that despite all apparent political successes and despite increasing
economic wealth, the general situation was deteriorating from year to year.
If nothing else, the elections for the Reichstag announced, with their outward
swelling of the Marxist vote, the steadily approaching inward and hence
also outward collapse. All the successes of the so-called bourgeois parties
were worthless, not only because even with so-called bourgeois electoral
victories they were unable to halt the numerical growth of the Marxist flood,
but because they themselves above all now bore the ferments of decay in
their own bodies. Without suspecting it, the bourgeois world itself was
inwardly infected with the deadly poison of Marxist ideas and its resistance
often sprang more from the competitor's envy of ambitious leaders than from
a fundamental rejection of adversaries determined to fight to the utmost.
In these long years there was only one who kept up an imperturbable, unflagging
fight, and this was the Jean His Star of David I rose higher and higher
in proportion as our people's will for selfpreservation vanished.Therefore, in August, 1914, it was not a people resolved to attack which rushed to the battlefield; no, it was only the last flicker of the national instinct of self-preservation in face of the progressing pacifist-Marxist paralysis of our national body. Since even in these days of destiny, our people did not recognize the inner enemy, all outward resistance

was in vain and Providence did not bestow her reward on the victorious sword, but followed the law of eternal retribution.On the basis of this inner realization, there took form in our new movement the leading principles as well as the tendency, which in our conviction were alone capable, not only of halting the decline of the German people, but of creating the granite foundation upon which some day a state will rest which represents, not an alien mechanism of economic concerns

and interests, but a national organism:


 Lowering of the level of the higher race; Physical and intellectual regression and hence the beginning of a slowly but surely progressing sickness.




IF AT THE END of this volume I describe the first period in
the development of our movement and briefly discuss a number of questions
it raises, my aim is not to give a dissertation on the spiritual aims of
the movement. The aims and tasks of the new movement are so gigantic that
they can only be treated in a special volume. In a second volume, therefore,
I shall discuss the programmatic foundations of the movement in detail and
attempt to draw a picture of what we conceive of under the word 'state.'
By 'us' I mean all the hundreds of thousands who fundamentally long for
the same thing without as individuals finding the words to describe outwardly
I what they inwardly visualize; for the noteworthy fact about all reforms
is that at first they possess but a single champion yet many million supporters.
Their aim has often been for centuries the inner longing of hundreds of
thousands, until one man stands up to proclaim such a general will, and
as a standard-bearer guides the old longing to victory in the form of the
new idea.The fact that millions bear in their hearts the desire for a
basic change in the conditions obtaining today proves the deep discontent
under which they suffer. It expresses itself in thousandfold manifestations
with one in despair and hopelessness, with another in ill will, anger, and
indignation; with this man in indifference, and with that man in furious
excesses. As witnesses to this inner dissatisfaction we may consider those
who are weary of elections as well as the many who tend to the most fanatical
extreme of the Left.The young movement was intended primarily to appeal to these
last. It is not meant to constitute an organization of the contented and
satisfied, but to embrace those tormented by suffering, those without peace,
the unhappy and the discontented, and above all it must not swim on the
surface of a national body, but strike roots deep within it.In purely political terms, the following picture presented
itself in 1918: a people torn into two parts. The one, by far the smaller,
includes the strata of the national intelligentsia, excluding all the physically
active. It is outwardly national, yet under this word can conceive of nothing
but a very insipid and weak-kneed defense of so-called state interests,
which in turn seem identical with dynastic interests. They attempt to fight
for their ideas and aims with spiritual weapons which are as fragmentary
as they are superficial, and which fail completely in the face of the enemy's
brutality. With a single frightful blow this class, which only a short time
before was still governing, is stretched on the ground and with trembling
cowardice suffers every humiliation at the hands of the ruthless victor.Confronting it is a second class, the broad mass of the laboring
population. It is organized in more or less radical Marxist movements, determined
to break all spiritual resistance by the power of violence. It does not
want to be national, but consciously rejects any promotion of national interests,
just as, conversely, it aids and abets all foreign oppression. It is numerically
the stronger and above all comprises all those elements of the nation without
which a national resurrection is unthinkable and impossible.For in 1918 this much was clear: no resurrection of the German
people can occur except through the recovery of outward power. But the prerequisites
for this are not arms, as our bourgeois 'statesmen ' keep prattling, but
the forces of the will. The German people had more than enough arms before.
They were not able to secure freedom because the energies of the national
instinct of self-preservation, the will for self-preservation, were lacking.
The best weapon is dead, worthless material as long as the spirit is lacking
which is ready, willing, and determined to use it. Germany became defenseless,
not because arms were lacking, but because the will was lacking to guard
the weapon for national survival.If today more than ever our Left politicians are at pains to
point out the lack of arms as the necessary cause of their spineless, compliant,
actually treasonous policy, we must answer only one thing: no, the reverse
is true. Through your anti-national, criminal policy of abandoning national
interests, you surrendered our arms. Now you attempt to represent the lack
of arms as the underlying cause of your miserable villainy. This, like everything
you do, is lees and falsification.But this reproach applies just as much to the politicians on
the Right. For, thanks to their miserable cowardice, the Jewish rabble that
had come to power was able in 1918 to steal the nation's arms. They, too,
have consequently no ground and no right to palm off our present lack of
arms as the compelling ground for their wily caution (read ' cowardice ');
on the contrary, our defenselessness is the consequence of their cowardice.Consequently the question of regaining German power is not:
How shall we manufacture arms? but: How shall we manufacture the spirit
which enables a people to bear arms? If this spirit dominates a people,
the will finds a thousand ways, every one of which ends in a weapon ! But
give a coward ten pistols and if attacked he will not be able to fire a
single shot. And so for him they are more worthless than a knotted stick
for a courageous man.The question of regaining our people's political power is primarily
a question of recovering our national instinct of self preservation, if
for no other reason because experience shows that any preparatory foreign
policy, as well as any evaluation of a state as such, takes its cue less
from the existing weapons than from a nation's recognized or presumed moral
capacity for resistance. A nation1s ability to form alliances is determined
much less by dead stores of existing arms than by the visible presence of
an ardent national will for self-preservation and heroic death-defying courage.
For an alliance is not concluded with arms but with men. Thus, the English
nation will have to be considered the most valuable ally in the world as
long as its leadership and the spirit of its byroad masses justify us in
expecting that brutality and perseverance which is determined to fight a
battle once begun t04 victorious end, with every means and without consideration
of time and sacrifices; and what is more, the military armament existing
at any given moment does not need to stand in any proportion to that of
other states.If we understand that the resurrection of the German nation
represents a question of regaining our political will for self-preservation,
it is also clear that this cannot be done by winning elements which in point
of will at least are already national, but only by the nationalization of
the consciously anti-national masses.A young movement which, therefore, sets itself the goal of resurrecting
a German state with its own sovereignty will have to direct its fight entirely
to winning the broad masses. Wretched as our so-called ' national bourgeoisie
' is on the whole, inadequate as its national attitude seems, certainly
from this side no serious resistance is to be expected against a powerful
domestic and foreign policy in the future. Even if the German bourgeoisie,
for their well-known narrowminded and short-sighted reasons, should, as
they once did toward Bismarck, maintain an obstinate attitude of passive
resistance in the hour of coming liberation- an active resistance, in view
of their recognized and proverbial cowardice, is never to be feared.It is different with the masses of our internationally minded
comrades. In their natural primitiveness, they are snore inclined to the
idea of violence, and, moreover, their Jewish leadership is more brutal
and ruthless. They will crush any German resurrection Just as they once
broke the backbone of the German army. But above all: in this state with
its parliamentary government they will, thanks to their majority in numbers,
not only obstruct any national foreign policy, but also make impossible
any higher estimation of the German strength, thus making us seem uradesirable
as an ally. For not only are we ourselves aware of the element of weakness
lying in our fifteen million Marxists, detmocrats, pacifists, and Centrists;
it is recognized even more by foreign countries, which measure the value
of a possible alliance with us according to the weight of this burden. No
one allies himself with a state in which the attitude of the active part
of the population toward any determined foreign policy is passive, to say
the least.To this we must add the fact that the leaderships of these parties
of national treason must and will be hostile to any resurrection, out of
mere instinct of self-preservation. Historically it is just not conceivable
that the German people could recover its former position without settling
accounts with those who were the cause and occasion of the unprecedented
collapse which struck our state. For before the judgment seat of posterity
November, 1918, will be evaluated, not as high treason, but as treason against
the fatherland.Thus, any possibility of regaining outward German independence
is bound up first and foremost with the recovery of the inner unity of our
people's will.But regarded even from the purely technical point of view, the
idea of an outward German liberation seems senseless as long as the broad
masses are not also prepared to enter the service of this liberating idea.
From the purely military angle, every officer above all will realize after
a moment's thought that a foreign struggle cannot be carried on with student
battalions, that in addition to the brains of a people, the fists are also
needed. In addition, we must bear in mind that a national defense, which
is based only on the circles of the so-called intelligentsia, would squander
irreplaceable treasures. The absence of the young German intelligentsia
which found its death on the fields of Flanders in the fall of 1914 was
sorely felt later on. It was the highest treasure that the German nation
possessed and during the War its loss could no longer be made good. Not
only is it impossible to carry on the struggle itself if the storming battalions
do not find the masses of the workers in their ranks; the technical preparations
are also impracticable without the inner unity of our national will. Especially
our people, doomed to languish along unarmed beneath the thousand eyes of
the Versailles peace treaty, can only make technical preparations for the
achievement of freedom and human independence if the army of domestic stoolpigeons
is decimated down to those whose inborn lack of character permits them to
betray anything and everything for the well-known thirty pieces of silvery
For with these we can deal. Unconquerable by comparison seem the millions
who oppose the national resurrection out of political conviction-unconquerable
as long as the inner cause of their opposition, the international Marxist
philosophy of life, is not combated and torn out of their hearts and brains.Regardless, therefore, from what standpoint we examine the possibility
of regaining our state and national independence, whether frost the standpoint
of preparations in the sphere of foreign policy, from that of technical
armament or that of battle itself, in every case the presupposition for
everything remains the previous winning of the broad masses of our people
for the idea of our national independence.Without the recovery of our external freedom, however, any internal
reform, even in the most favorable case, means only the increase of our
productivity as a colony. The surplus of all socalled economic improvements
falls to the benefit of our international control commissions, and every
social improvement at best raises the productivity of our work for them.
No cultural advances will fall to the share of the German nation; they are
too contingent on the political independence and dignity of our nation.Thus, if a favorable solution of the German future requires
a national attitude on the part of the broad masses of our people, this
must be the highest, mightiest task of a movement whose activity is not
intended to exhaust itself in the satisfaction of the moment, but which
must examine all its commissions and omissions solely with a view to their
presumed consequences in the future.Thus, by 1919 we clearly realized that, as its highest aim,
the new movement must first accomplish the nationalization of the masses.From a tactical standpoint a number of demands resulted from
this.(1) To win the masses for a national resurrection, no social
sacrifice is too great.Whatever economic concessions are made to our working class
today, they stand in no proportion to the gain for the entire nation if
they help to give the broad masses back to their nation. Only pigheaded
short-sightedness, such as is often unfortunately found in our employer
circles, can fail to recognize that in the long run there can be no economic
upswing for them and hence no economic profit, unless the inner national
solidarity of our people is restored.If during the War the German unions had ruthlessly guarded the
interests of the working class, if even during the War they had struck a
thousand times over and forced approval of the demands of the workers they
represented on the dividend-hungry employers of those days; but if in matters
of national defense they had avowed their Germanism with the same fanaticism;
and if with equal ruthlessness they had given to the fatherland that which
is the fatherland's, the War would not have been lost. And how trifiing
all economic concessions, even the greatest, would have been, compared to
the immense importance of winning the War!Thus a movement which plans to give the German worker back to
the German people must clearly realize that in this question economic sacrifices
are of no importance whatever as long as the preservation and independence
of the national economy are not threatened by them.(2) The national education of the broad masses can only take
place indirectly through a social uplift, since thus exclusively can those
general economic premises be created which permit the individual to partake
of the cultural goods of the nation.(3) The nationalization of the broad masses can never be achieved
by half-measures, by weakly emphasizing a socalled objective standpoint,
but only by a ruthless and fanatically onesided orientation toward the goal
to be achieved. That is to say, a people cannot be made 'national' in the
sense understood by our present-day bourgeoisie, meaning with so and so
many limitations, but only nationalistic with the entire vehemence that
is inherent in the extreme. Poison is countered only by an antidote, and
only the shallowness of a-bourgeois mind can regard the middle course as
the road to heaven.The broad masses of a people consist neither of professors nor
of diplomats. The scantiness of the abstract knowledge they possess directs
their sentiments more to the world of feeling. That is where their positive
or negative attitude lies. It is receptive only to an expression of force
in one of these two directions and never to a half-measure hovering between
the two. Their emotional attitude at the same time conditions their extraordinary
stability. Faith is harder to shake than knowledge, love succumbs less to
change than respect, hate is more enduring than aversion, and the impetus
to the mightiest upheavals on this earth has at all times consisted less
in a scientific knowledge dominating the masses than in a fanaticism which
inspired them and sometimes in a hysteria which drove them forward. Anyone
who wants to win the broad masses must know the key that opens the door
to their heart. Its name is not objectivity (read weakness), but will and
power.(4) The soul of the people can only be won if along with carrying
on a positive struggle for our own aims, we destroy the opponent of these
aims.The people at all times see the proof of their own right in
ruthless attack on a foe, and to them renouncing the destruction of the
adversary seems like uncertainty with regard to their own right if not a
sign of their own unriglxt.The broad masses are only a piece of Nature and their sentiment
does not understand the mutual handshake of people who daim that they want
the opposite things. What they desire is the victory of the stronger and
the destruction of the weak or his unconditional subjection.The nationalization of our masses will succeed only when, aside
from all the positive struggle for the soul of our people, their international
poisoners are exterminated.(5) All great questions of the day are questions of the moment
and represent only consequences of definite causes. Only one amongall of
them, however, possesses causal importance,land that is the question of
the racial preservation of the nation. In the blood alone resides the strength
as well as the weakness of man. As long as peoples do not recognize and
give heed to the importance of their racial foundation, they are like men
who would like to teach poodles the qualities of greyhounds, failing to
realize that the speed of the greyhound like the docility of the poodle
are not learned, but are qualities inherent in the race. Peoples which renounce
the preservation of their racial purity renounce with it the unity of their
soul in all its expressions. The divided state of their nature is the natural
consequence of the divided state of their blood, and the change in their
intellectual and creative force is only the effect of the change in their
racial foundations.Anyone who wants to free the German blood from the manifestations
and vices of today, which were originally alien to its nature, will first
have to redeem it from the foreign virus of these manifestations.Without the clearest knowledge of the racial problem and hence
of the Jewish problem there will never be a resurrection of the German nation.The racial question gives the key not only to world history,
but to all human culture.(6) Organizing the broad masses of our people which are today
in the international camp into a national people's community does not mean
renouncing the defense of justified class interests. Divergent class and
professional interests are not synonymous with class cleavages but are natural
consequences of our economic life. Professional grouping is in no way opposed
to a true national community, for the latter consists in the unity of a
nation in all those questions which affect this nation as such.The integration of an occupational group which has become a
class with the national community, or merely with the state, is not accomplished
by the lowering of higher dasses but by uplifting the lower dasses. This
process in turn can never be upheld by the higher class, but only by the
lower class fighting for its equal rights. The present-day bourgeoisie was
not organized into the state by measures of the nobility, but by its own
energy under its own leadership.The German worker will not be raised to the framework of the
German national community via feeble scenes of fraternization, but by a
conscious raising of his social and cultural situation until the most serious
differences may be viewed as bridged. A movement which sets this development
as its goal will have to take its supporters primarily from this camp.'
It may fall back on the intelligentsia only in so far as the latter has
completely understood the goal to be achieved. This process of transformation
and equalization will not be completed in ten or twenty years; experience
shows that it comprises many generations.The severest obstade to the present-day worker's approach to
the national community lies not in the defense of his class interests, but
in his international leadership and attitude which are hostile to the people
and the fatherland. The same unions with a fanatical national leadership
in political and national matters would make millions of workers into the
most valuable members of their nation regardless of the various struggles
that took place over purely economic matters.A movement which wants honestly to give the German worker back
to his people and tear him away from the international delusion must sharply
attack a conception dominant above all in employer circles, which under
national community understands the unresisting economic surrender of the
employee to the employer and which chooses to regard any attempt at safeguarding
even justified interests regarding the employee's economic existence as
an attack on the national community. Such an assertion is not only untrue,
but a conscious lie, because the national community imposes its obligations
not only on one side but also on the other.Just as surely as a worker sins against the spirit of a real
national community when, without regard for the common welfare and the survival
of a national economy, he uses his power to raise extortionate demands,
an employer breaks this community to the same extent when he conducts his
business in an inhuman, exploiting way, misuses the national labor force
and makes millions out of its sweat. He then has no right to designate himself
as national, no right to speak of a national community; no, he is a selfish
scoundrel who induces social unrest and provokes future conflicts which
whatever happens must end in harming the nation.Thus, the reservoir from which the young movement must gather
its supporters will primarily be the masses of our workers. Its work will
be to tear these away from the international delusion, to free them from
their social distress, to raise them out of their cultural misery and lead
them to the national community as a valuable, united factor, national in
feeling and desire.If, in the circles of the national intelligentsia, there are
found men with the warmest hearts for their people and its future, imbued
with the deepest knowledge of the importance of this struggle for the soul
of these masses, they will be highly welcome in the ranks of this movement,
as a valuable spiritual backbone. But winning over the bourgeois voting
cattle can never be the aim of this movement. If it were, it would burden
itself with a dead weight which by its whole nature would paralyze our power
to recruit from the broad masses. For regardless of the theoretical beauty
of the idea of leading together the broadest masses from below and from
above within the framework of the movement, there is the opposing fact that
by psychological propagandizing of bourgeois masses in general meetings,
it may be possible to create moods and even to spread insight, but not to
do away with qualities of character or, better expressed, vices whose development
and origin embrace centuries. The difference with regard to the cultural
level on both sides and the attitude on both sides toward questions raised
by economic interests is at present still so great that, as soon as the
intoxication of the meetings has passed, it would at once manifest itself
as an obstacle.Finally, the goal is not to undertake a reskatification in the
camp that is national to begin with, but to win over the antinational camp.And this point of view, finally, is determining for the tactical
attitude of the whole movement.(7) This one-sided but thereby clear position must express itself
in the propaganda of the movement and on the other hand in turn is required
on propagandist grounds.If propaganda is to be effective for the movement, it must be
addressed to only one quarter, since otherwise, in view of the difference
in the intellectual training of the two camps in question, either it will
not be understood by the one group, or by the other it would be rejected
as obvious and therefore uninterestingEven the style and the tone of its individual products cannot
be equally effective for two such extreme groups. If propaganda renounces
primitiveness of expression, it does not find its way to
the feeling of the broad masses. If, however, in word and gesture, it uses
the masses' harshness of sentiment and expression, it will be rejected by
the so-called intelligentsia as coarse and vulgar. Among a hundred so-called
speakers there are hardly ten capable of speaking with equal effect today
before a public consisting of street.sweepers, locksmiths, sewer-cleaners,
etc., and tomorrow holding a lecture with necessarily the same thought content
in an auditorium full of university professors and students. But among a
thousand speakers there is perhaps only a single one who can manage to speak
to locksmiths and university professors at the same time, in a form which
not only is suitable to the receptivity of both parties, but also influences
both parties with equal effect or actually lashes them into a wild storm
of applause. We must always bear in mind that even the most beautiful idea
of a sublime theory in most cases can be disseminated only through the small
and smallest minds. The important thing is not what the genius who has created
an idea has in mind, but what, in what form, and with what success the proph
ets of this idea transmit it to the broad masses.The strong attractive power of the Social Democracy, yes, of
the whole Marxist movement, rested in large part on the homogeneity and
hence one-sidedness of the public it addressed. The more seemingly limited,
indeed, the narrower its ideas were, the more easily they were taken up
and assimilated by a mass whose intellectual level corresponded to the material
offered.Likewise for the new movement a simple and clear line thus resulted.Propaganda must be adjusted to the broad masses in content and
in form, and its soundness is to be measured exdusively by its effective
result.In a mass meeting of all classes it is not that speaker who
is mentally closest to the intellectuals present who speaks best, but the
one who conquers the heart of the masses.A member of the intelligentsia present at such a meeting, who
carps at the intellectual level of the speech despite the speaker's obvious
effect on the lower strata he has set out to conquer, proves the complete
incapacity of his thinking and the worthlessness of his person for the young
movement. It can use only that intellectual who comprehends the task and
goal of the movement to such an extent that he has learned to judge the
activity of propaganda according to its success and not according to the
impressions which it leaves behind in himself. For propaganda is not intended
to provide entertainment for people who are national-minded to begin with,
but to win the enemies of our nationality, in so far as they are of our
blood.In general those trends of thought which I have briefly summed
up under the heading of war propaganda should be determining and decisive
for our movement in the manner and execution of its own enlightenment work.That it was right was demonstrated by its success(8) The goal of a political reform movement will never be reached
by enlightenment work or by influencing ruling circles, but only by the
achievement of political power. Every world-moving idea has not only the
right, but also the duty, of securing, those means which make possible the
execution of its ideas. Success is the one earthly judge concerning the
right or wrong of such an effort, and under success we must not understand,
as in the year 1918, the achievement of power in itself, but an exercise
of that power that will benefit the nation. Thus, a coup d'etat must not
be regarded as successful if, as senseless state's attorneys in Germany
think today, the revolutionaries have succeeded in possessing themselves
of the state power, but only if by the realization of the purposes and aims
underlying such a revolutionary action, more benefit accrues to the nation
than under the past regime. Something which cannot very well be claimed
for the German revolution, as the gangster job of autumn 1918, calls itself.If the achievement of political power constitutes the precondition
for the practical execution of reform purposes, the movement with reform
purposes must from the first day of its existence feel itself a movement
of the masses and not a literary tea-club or a shopkeepers' bowling society.(9) The young movement is in its nature and inner organization
anti-parliamentarian; that is, it rejects, in general and in its own inner
structure, a principle of majority rule in which the leader is degraded
to the level of a mere executant of other people's will and opinion. In
little as well as big things, the movement advocates the principle of a
Germanic democracy: the leader is elected, but then enjoys unconditional
authority.The practical consequences of this principle in the movement
are the following:The first chairman of a local group is elected, but then he
is the responsible leader of the local group. All committees are subordinate
to him and not, conversely, he to a committee. There are no electoral committees,
but only committees for work. The responsible leader, the first chairman,
organizes the work. The first principle applies to the next higher organization,
the precinct, the district or county. The leader is always elected, but
thereby he is vested with unlimited powers and authority. And, finally,
the same applies to the leadership of the whole party. The chairman is elected,
but he is the exclusive leader of the movements All committees are subordinate
to him and not he to the committees. He makes the decisions and hence bears
the responsibility on his shoulders. Members of the movement are free to
call him to account before the forum of a new election, to divest him of
his office in so far as he has infringed on the principles of the movement
or served its interests badly. His place is then taken by an abler, new
man, enjoying, however} the same authority and the same responsibility.It is one of the highest tasks of the movement to make this
principle determining, not only within its own ranks, but for the entire
state.Any man who wants to be leader bears, along with the highest
unlimited authority, also the ultimate and heaviest responsibility.Anyone who is not equal to this or is too cowardly to bear the
consequences of his acts is not fit to be leader; only the hero is cut out
for this.The progress and culture of humanity are not a product of the
majority, but rest exclusively on the genius and energy of the personality.To cultivate the personality and establish it in its rights
is one of the prerequisites for recovering the greatness and power of our
nationality.Hence the movement is anti-parliamentarian, and even its participation
in a parliamentary institution can only imply activity for its destruction,
for eliminating an institution in which we must see one of the gravest symptoms
of mankind's decay.(10) The movement decisively rejects any position on questions
which either lie outside the frame of its political work or, being not of
basic importance, are irrelevant for it. Its task is not a religious reformation,
but a political reorganization of our people. In both religious denominations
it sees equally valuable pillars for the existence of our people and therefore
combats those parties which want to degrade this foundation of an ethical,
moral, and religious consolidation of our national body to the level of
an instrument of their party interests.The movement finally sees its task, not in the restoration of
a definite state form and in the struggle against another, but in the creation
of those basic foundations without which neither republic nor monarchy can
endure for any length of time. Its mission lies not in the foundation of
a monarchy or in the reinforcement of a republic, but in the creation of
a Germanic state.The question of the outward shaping of this state, its crowning,
so to speak, is not of basic importance, but is determined only by questions
of practical expediency.
For a people that has once understood the great problems and tasks of its
existence, the questions of outward formalities will no longer lead to inner
struggle.(11) The question of the movement's inner organization is one
of expediency and not of principle.
The best organization is not that which inserts the greatest, but that which
inserts the smallest, intermediary apparatus between the leadership of a
movement and its individual adherents. For the function of organization
is the transmission of a definite idea-which always first arises from the
brain of an individual -to a larger body of men and the supervision of its
realization.Hence organization is in all things only a necessary evil. In
the best case it is a means to an end, in the worst case an end in itself.Since the world produces more mechanical than ideal natures,
the forms of organization are usually created more easily than ideas as
such.The practical development of every idea striving for realization
in this world, particularly of one possessing a reform character, is in
its broad outlines as follows:Some idea of genius arises in the brain of a man who feels called
upon to transmit his knowledge to the rest of humanity. He preaches his
view and gradually wins a certain circle of adherents. This process of the
direct and personal transmittance of a man's ideas to the rest of his fellow
men l is the most ideal and natural. With the rising increase in the adherents
of the new doctrine, it gradually becomes impossible for the exponent of
the idea to go on exerting a personal, direct influence on the innumerable
supporters, to lead and direct them. Proportionately as, in consequence
of the growth of the community, the direct and shortest communication is
excluded, the necessity of a connecting organization arises: thus, the ideal
condition is ended and is replaced by the necessary evil of organization.
Little sub-groups are formed which in the political movement, for example,
call themselves local groups and constitute the germ-cells of the future
organization.If the unity of the doctrine is not to be lost, however, this
subdivision must not take place until the authority of the spiritual founder
and of the school trained by him can be regarded as unconditional. The geo-political
significance of a focal center in a movement cannot be overemphasized. Only
the presence of such a place, exerting the magic spell of a Mecca or a Rome,
can in the long run give the movement a force which is based on inner unity
and the recognition of a summit representing this unity.Thus, in forming the first organizational germ-cells we must
never lose sight of the necessity, not only of preserving the importance
of the original local source of the idea, but of making it paramount. This
intensification of the ideal, moral, and factual immensity of the movement's
point of origin and direction must take place in exact proportion as the
movement's germcells, which have now become innumerable, demand new links
in the shape of organizational forms.For, as the increasing number of individual adherents makes
it impossible to continue direct communication with them for the formation
of the lowest bodies, the ultimate innumerable increase of these lowest
organizational forms compels in turn creation of higher associations which
politically can be designated roughly as county or district groups.Easy as it still may be to maintain the authority of the original
center toward the lowest local groups, it will be equally difficult to maintain
this position toward the higher organizational forms which now arise. But
this is the precondition for the unified existence of the movement and hence
for carrying out an idea.If, finally, these larger intermediary divisions are also combined
into new organizational forms, the difficulty is further increased of safeguarding,
even toward them, the unconditional leading character of the original founding
site, its school, etc.Therefore, the mechanical forms of an organization may only
be developed to the degree in which the spiritual ideal authority of a center
seems unconditionally secured. In political formations this guaranty can
often seem provided only by practical power.From this the following directives for the inner structure of
the movement resulted:(a) Concentration for the time being of all activity in a single
place: Munich. Training of a community of unconditionally reliable supporters
and development of a school for the subsequent dissemination of the idea.
Acquisition of the necessary authority for the future by the greatest possible
visible successes in this one place.To make the movement and its leaders known, it was necessary,
not only to shake the belief in the invincibility of the Marxist doctrine
in one place for all to see, but to demonstrate the possibility of an opposing
movement.(b) Formation of local groups only when the authority of the
central leadership in Munich may be regarded as unquestionably recognized.(c) Likewise the formation of district, county, or provincial
groups depends, not only on the need for them, but also on certainty that
an unconditional recognition of the center has been achieved.
Furthermore, the creation of organizational forms is dependent on the men
who are available and can be considered as leaders
This may occur in two ways:
(a) The movement disposes of the necessary financial means for the training
and schooling of minds capable of future leadership. It then distributes
the material thus acquired systematically according to criteria of tactical
and other expediency.
This way is the easier and quicker; however, it demands great financial
means, since this leader material is only able to work for the movement
when paid.
(b) The movement, owing to the lack of financial means, is not in a position
to appoint official leaders, but for the present must depend on honorary
officers.This way is the slower and more difficult.Under certain circumstances the leadership of a movement must
let large territories lie fallow, unless there emerges from the adherents
a man able and willing to put himself at the disposal of the leadership,
and organize and lead the movement in the district in question.It may happen that in large territories there will be no one,
in other places, however, two or even three almost equally capable. The
difficulty that lies in such a development is great and can only be overcome
in the course of years.The prerequisite for the creation of an organizational form
is and remains the man necessary for its leadership.As worthless as an army in all its organizational forms is without
officers, equally worthless is a political organization without the suitable
leader.Not founding a local group is more useful to the movement when
a suitable leader personality is lacking than to have its organization miscarry
due to the absence of a leader to direct and drive it forward.Leadership itself requires not only will but also ability, and
a greater importance must be attached to will and energy than to intelligence
as such, and most valuable of all is a combination of ability, determination,
and perseverance.(12) The future of a movement is conditioned by the fanaticism
yes, the intolerance, with which its adherents uphold it as the sole correct
movement, and push it past other formations of a similar sort.It is the greatest error to believe that the strength of a movement
increases through a union with another of similar character. It is true
that every enlargement of this kind at first means an increase in outward
dimensions, which to the eyes of superficial observers means power; in truth,
however, it only takes over the germs of an inner weakening that will later
become effective.For whatever can be said about the like character of two movements,
in reality it is never present. For otherwise there would actually be not
two movements but one. And regardless wherein the differences lie-even if
they consisted only in the varying abilities of the leadership-they exist.
But the natural law of all development demands, not the coupling of two
formations which are simply not alike, but the victory of the stronger and
the cultivation of the victor's force and strength made possible alone by
the resultant struggle.Through the union of two more or less equal political party
formations momentary advantages may arise, but in the long run any success
won in this way is the cause of inner weaknesses which appear later.The greatness of a movement is exclusively guaranteed by the
unrestricted development of its inner strength and its steady growth up
to the final victory over all competitors.Yes, we can say that its strength and hence the justification
of its existence increases only so long as it recognizes the principle of
struggle as the premise of its development, and that it has passed the high
point of its strength in the moment when complete victory inclines to its
side.Therefore, it is only profitable for a movement to strive for
this victory in a form which does not lead to an early momentary success,
but which in a long struggle occasioned by absolute intolerance also provides
long growth.Movements which increase only by the so-called fusion of similar
formations, thus owing their strength to compromises, are like hothouse
plants. They shoot up, but they lack the strength to defy the centuries
and withstand heavy storms.The greatness of every mighty organization embodying an idea
in this world lies in the religious fanaticism and intolerance with which,
fanatically convinced of its own right, it intolerantly imposes its will
against all others. If an idea in itself is sound and, thus armed, takes
up a struggle on this earth, it is unconquerable and every persecution will
only add to its inner strength.The greatness of Christianity did not lie in attempted negotiations
for compromise with any similar philosophical opinions in the ancient world,
but in its inexorable fanaticism in preaching and fighting for its own doctrine.The apparent head start which movements achieve by fusions is
amply caught up with by the steady increase in the strength of a doctrine
and organization that remain independent and fight their own fight.(13) On principle the movement must so educate its members that
they do not view the struggle as something idly cooked up, but as the thing
that they themselves are striving ford Therefore, they must not fear the
hostility of their enemies, but must feel that it is the presupposition
for their own right to exist. They must not shun the hatred of the enemies
of our nationality and our philosophy and its manifestations; they must
long for them. And among the manifestations of this hate are lies and slander.Any man who is not attacked in the Jewish newspapers, not slandered
and vilified, is no decent German and no true National Socialist. The best
yardstick for the value of his attitude, for the sincerity of his conviction,
and the force of his will is the hostility he receives from the mortal enemy
of our people.It must, over and over again, be pointed out to the adherents
of the movement and in a broader sense to the whole people that the Jew
and his newspapers always lie and that even an occasional Ruth is only intended
to cover a bigger falsification and is therefore itself in turn a deliberate
untruth. The Jew is the great master in lying, and lies and deception are
his weapons in struggle.
Every Jewish slander and every Jewish lie is a scar of honor on the body
of our warriors.The man they have most reviled stands closest to us and the
man they hate worst is our best friend.Anyone who picks up a Jewish newspaper in the morning and does
not see himself slandered in it has not made profitable use of the previous
day; for if he had, he would be persecuted, reviled, slandered, abused}
befouled. And only the man who combats this mortal enemy of our nation and
of all Aryan humanity and culture most effectively may expect to see the
slanders of this race and the struggle of this people directed against him.When these principles enter the flesh and blood of our supporters,
the movement will become unshakable and invincible.(14) The movement must promote respect for personality by all
means; it must never forget that in personal worth lies the worth of everything
human; that every idea and every achievement is the result of one man's
creative force and that the admiration of greatness constitutes, not only
a tribute of thanks to the latter, but casts a unifying bond around the
grateful.Personality cannot be replaced; especially when it embodies
not the mechanical but the cultural and creative element. No more than a
famous master can be replaced and another take over the completion of the
half-finished painting he has left behind can the great poet and thinker,
the great statesman and the great soldier, be replaced. For their activity
lies always in the province of art. It is not mechanically trained, but
inborn by God's grace.The greatest revolutionary changes and achievements of this
earth its greatest cultural accomplishments the immortal deeds in the field
of statesmanship, etc., are forever inseparably bound up with a name and
are represented by it. To renounce doing homage to a great spirit means
the loss of an immense strength which emanates from the names of all great
men and women.The Jew knows this best of all. He, whose great men are only
great in the destruction of humanity and its culture, makes sure that they
are idolatrously admired. He attempts only to represent the admiration of
the nations for their own spirits as unworthy and brands it as a 'personality
cult.'As soon as a people becomes so cowardly that it succumbs to
this Jewish arrogance and effrontery, it renounces the mightiest power that
it possesses; for this is based, not on respect for the masses, but on the
veneration of genius and on uplift and enlightenment by his example.When human hearts break and human souls-despair, then from the
twilight of the past the great conquerors of distress and care, of disgrace
and misery, of spiritual slavery and physical compulsion, look down on them
and hold out their eternal hands to the despairing mortals!Woe to the people that is ashamed to take them!In the first period of our movement's development we suffered
from nothing so much as from the insignificance, the unknownness of our
names, which in themselves made our success questionable. The hardest thing
in this first period, when often only six, seven, or eight heads met together
to use the words of an opponent, was to arouse and preserve in this tiny
circle faith in the mighty future of the movement.Consider that six or seven men, all nameless poor devils, had
joined together with the intention of forming a movement hoping to succeed-where
the powerful great mass parties had hitherto failed-in restoring a German
Reich of greater power and glory. If people had attacked us in those days,
yes, even if they had laughed at us, in both cases we should have been happy.
For the oppressive thing was neither the one nor the other; it was the complete
lack of attention we found in those days.When I entered the circle of these few men, there could be no
question of a party or a movement. I have already described my impressions
regarding my first meeting with this little formation. In the weeks that
followed, I had time and occasion to study this so-called 'party' which
at first looked so impossible. And, by God the picture was depressing and
discouraging. There was nothing here, really positively nothing. The name
of a party whose committee constituted practically the whole membership,
which, whether we liked it or not, was exactly what it was trying to combat,
a parliament on a small scale. Here, too, the vote ruled; if big parliaments
yelled their throats hoarse for months at a time, it was about important
problems at least, but in this little circle the answer to a safely arrived
letter let loose an interminable argument!The public, of course, knew nothing at all about this. Not a
soul in Munich knew the party even by name, except for its few supporters
and their few friends.Every Wednesday a so-called committee meeting took place in
a Munich cafe, and once a week an evening lecture. Since the whole membership
of the 'movement' was at first represented in the committee, the faces of
course were always the same. Now the task was at last to burst the bonds
of the small circle, to win new supporters, but above all to make the name
of the movement known at any price.In this we used the following technique:Every month, and later every two weeks, we tried to hold a 'meeting.'
The invitations to it were written on the typewriter or sometimes by hand
on slips of paper and the first few times were distributed, or handed out,
by us personally. Each one of us turned to the circle of his friends, and
tried to induce someone or other to attend one of these affairs.The result was miserable.I still remember how I myself in this first period once distributed
about eighty of these slips of paper, and how in the evening we sat waiting
for the masses who were expected to appear.
An hour late, the ' chairman ' finally had to open the 'meeting.' We were
again seven men, the old seven.We changed over to having the invitation slips written on a
machine and mimeographed in a Munich stationery store. The result at the
next meeting was a few more listeners. Thus the number rose slowly from
eleven to thirteen, finally to seventeen, to twenty-three, to thirty-four
listeners.By little collections among us poor devils the funds were raised
with which at last to advertise the meeting by notices in the then independent
Munchener Beobachter in Munich. And this time the success was positively
amazing. We had organized the meeting in the Munich Hofbrauhauskeller (not
to be confused with the Munich Hofbrauhaus-Festsaal), a little room with
a capacity of barely one hundred and thirty people. To me personally the
room seemed like a big hall and each of us was worried whether we would
succeed in filling this 'mighty' edifice with people.At seven o'clock one hundred and eleven people were present
and the meeting was opened. A Munich professor made the main speech, and I, for the first
time, in public, was to speak second.In the eyes of Herr Harrer, then first chairman of the party,
the affair seemed a great adventure. This gentleman, who was certainly otherwise
honest, just happened to be convinced that I might be capable of doing certain
things, but not of speaking. And even in the time that followed he could
not be dissuaded from this opinion. "Things turned out differently. In this first meeting that could
be called public I had been granted twenty minutes' speaking time.I spoke for thirty minutes, and what before I had simply felt
within me, without in any way knowing it, was now proved by reality: I could
speak After thirty minutes the people in the small room were electrified
and the enthusiasm was first expressed by the fact that my appeal to the
self-sacrifice of those present led to the donation of three hundred marks.
This relieved us of a great worry. For at this time the financial stringency
was so great that we were not even in a position to have slogans printed
for the movement, or even distribute leaflets. Now the foundation was laid
for a little fund from which at least our barest needs and most urgent necessities
could be defrayed. But in another respect as well, the success of this first
larger meeting was considerable.
At that time I had begun to bring a number of fresh young forces into the
committee. During my many years in the army I -had come to know a great
number of faithful comrades who now slowly, on the basis of my persuasion,
began to enter the movement. They were all energetic young people, accustomed
to discipline, and from their period of service raised in the principle:
nothing at all is impossible, everything can be done if you only want it.How necessary such a transfusion of new blood was, I myself
could recognize after only a few weeks of collaboration.Herr Harrer, then first chairman of the party, was really a
journalist and as such he was certainly widely educated. But for a party
leader he had one exceedingly serious drawback: he was no speaker for the
masses. As scrupulously conscientious and precise as his work in itself
was, it nevertheless lacked-perhaps because of this very lack of a great
oratorical gift-the great sweep. Herr Drexler, then chairman of the Munich
local group, was a simple worker, likewise not very significant as a speaker,
and moreover he was no soldier. He had not served in the army, even during
the War he had not been a soldier, so that feeble and uncertain as he was
in his whole nature, he lacked the only schooling which was capable of turning
uncertain and soft natures into men. Thus both men were not made of stuff
which would have enabled them not only to bear in their hearts fanatical
faith in the victory of a movement, but also with indomitable energy and
will, and if necessary with brutal ruthlessness, to sweep aside any obstacles
which might stand in the path of the rising new idea. For this only beings
were fitted in whom spirit and body had acquired those military virtues
which can perhaps best be described as follows: swift as greyhounds, tough
as leather, and hard as Krupp steel.At that time I myself was still a soldier. My exterior and interior
had been whetted and hardened for well-nigh six years, so that at first
I must have seemed strange in this circle. I, too, had forgotten how to
say: 'that's impossible,' or 'it won't work'; 'we can't risk that,' 'that
is too dangerous,' etc.For of course the business was dangerous. Little attention as
the Reds paid to one of your bourgeois gossip clubs whose inner innocence
and hence harmlessness for themselves theyknew better than its own members,
they were determined to use every means to get rid of a movement which did
seem dangerous to them. Their most effective method in such cases has at
all times been terror or violence.In the year 1920, in many regions of Germany, a national meeting
that dared to address its appeal to the broad masses and publicly invite
attendance was simply impossible. The participants in such a meeting were
dispersed and driven away with bleeding heads. Such an accomplishment, to
be sure, did not require much skill: for after all the biggest so-called
bourgeois mass meeting would scatter at the sight of a dozen Communists
like hares running from a hound.Most loathsome to the Marxist deceivers of the people was inevitably
a movement whose explicit aim was the winning of those masses which had
hitherto stood exclusively in the service of the international Marxist Jewish
stock exchange parties. The very name of ' German Workers' Party ' had the
effect of goading them. Thus one could easily imagine that on the first
suitable occasion the conflict would begin with the Marxist inciters who
were then still drunk with victory.In the small circle that the movement then was a certain fear
of such a fight prevailed. The members wanted to appear in public as little
as possible, for fear of being beaten up. In their mind's eye they already
saw the first great meeting smashed and go the movement finished for good.
I had a hard time putting forward my opinion that we must not dodge this
struggle, but prepare for it, and for this reason acquire the armament which
alone offers protection against violence. Terror is not broken by the mind,
but by terror. The success of the first meeting strengthened my position
in this respect. We gained courage for a second meeting on a somewhat larger
scale.About October, 1919, the second, larger meeting took place in
the Eberlbraukeller. Topic: Brestlitovsk and Versailles. Four gentlemen
appeared as speakers. I myself spoke for almost an hour and the success
was greater than at the first rally. The audience had risen to more than
one hundred and thirty. An attempted disturbance was at once nipped in the
bud by my comrades. The diturbers flew down the stairs with gashed heads.Two weeks later another meeting took place in the same hall.
The attendance had risen to over one hundred and seventy and the room was
well filled. I had spoken again, and again the success was greater than
at the previous meeting.I pressed for a larger hall. At length we found one at the other
end of town in the 'Deutsches Reich' on Dachauer Strasse. The first meeting
in the new hall was not so well attended as the previous one: barely one
hundred and forty persons. In the committee, hopes began to sink and the
eternal doubters felt that the excessive repetition of our 'demonstrations'
had to be considered the cause of the bad attendance. There were violent
arguments in which I upheld the view that a city of seven hundred thousand
inhabitants could stand not one meeting every two weeks, but ten every week,
that we must not let ourselves be misled by failures, that the road we had
taken was the right
one, and that sooner or later, with steady perseverance, success was bound
to come. All in all, this whole period of winter 1919-20 was a single struggle
to strengthen confidence in the victorious might of the young movement and
raise it to that fanaticism of faith which can move mountains.The next meeting in the same hall showed me to be right. The
attendance had risen to over two hundred; the public as well as financial
success was brilliant.I urged immediate preparations for another meeting. It took
place barely two weeks later and the audience rose to over two hundred and
seventy heads.Two weeks later, for the seventh time, we called together the
supporters and friends of the new movement and the same hall could barely
hold the people who had grown to over four hundred.It was at this time that the young movement received its inner
form. In the small circle there were sometimes more or less violent disputes.
Various quarters-then as today-carped at designating the young movement
as a party. In such a conception I have always seen proof of the critics'
practical incompetence and intellectual smallness. They were and always
are the men who cannot distinguish externals from essentials, and who try
to estimate the value of a movement according to the most bombastic-sounding
titles, most of which, sad to say, the vocabulary of our forefathers must
provide.It was hard, at that time, to make it clear to people that every
movement, as long as it has not achieved the victory of its ideas, hence
its goal, is a party even if it assumes a thousand different names.If any man wants to put into practical effect a bold idea whose
realization seems useful in the interests of his fellow men, he will first
of all have to seek supporters who are ready to fight for his intentions.
And if this intention consists only in destroying the existing parties,
of ending the fragmentation, the exponents of this view and propagators
of this determination are themselves a party, as long as this goal has not
been achieved. It is hair-splitting and shadow-boxing when some antiquated
folkish theoretician, whose practical successes stand in inverse proportion
to his wisdom, imagines that he can change the party character which every
young movement possesses by changing this term.On the contrary.If anything is unfolkish, it is this tossing around of old Germanic
expressions which neither fit into the present period nor represent anything
definite, but can easily lead to seeing the significance of a movement in
its outward vocabulary. This is a real menace which today can be observed
on countless occasions.Altogether then, and also in the period that followed, I had
to warn again and again against those deutschvolkisch wandering scholars
whose positive accomplishment is always practically nil, but whose conceit
can scarcely be excelled. The young movement had and still has to guard
itself against an influx of people whose sole recommendation for the most
part lies in their declaration that they have fought for thirty and even
forty years for the same idea. Anyone who fights for forty years for a so-called
idea without being able to bring about even the slightest success, in fact,
without having prevented the victory of the opposite, has, with forty years
of activity, provided proof of his own incapacity. The danger above all
lies in the fact that such natures do not want to fit into the movement
as links, but keep shooting off their mouths about leading circles in which
alone, on the strength of their age-old activity, they can see a suitable
place for further activity. But woe betide if a young movement is surrended
to the mercies of such people. No more than a business man who in forty
years of activity has steadily run a big business into the ground is fitted
to be the founder of a new one, is a folkish Methuselah, who in exactly
the same time has gummed up and petrified a great idea, fit for the leadership
of a new, young movement!Besides, only a fragment of all these people come into the new
movement to serve it, but in most cases, under its protection or through
the possibilities it offers, to warm over their old cabbageThey do not want to benefit the idea of the new doctrine, they
only expect it to give them a chance to make humanity miserable with their
own ideas. For what kind of ideas they often are, it is hard to tell.The characteristic thing about these people is that they rave
about old Germanic heroism, about dim prehistory, stone axes spear and shield,
but in reality are the greatest cowards that can be imagined. For the same
people who brandish scholarly imitations of old German tin swords, and wear
a dressed bearskin with bull's horns over their bearded heads, preach for
the present nothing but struggle with spiritual weapons, and run away as
fast as they can from every Communist blackjack. Posterity will have little
occasion to glorify their own heroic existence in a new epic.I came to know these people too well not to feel the profoundest
disgust at their miserable play-acting. But they make a ridiculous impression
on the broad masses, and the Jew has every reason to spare these folkish
comedians, even to prefer them to the true fighters for a coming German
state. With all this, these people are boundlessly conceited; despite all
the proofs of their complete incompetence, they daim to know everything
better and become a real plague for all straightforward and honest fighters
to whom heroism seems worth honoring, not only in the past, but who also
endeavor to give posterity a similar picture by their own actions.And often it can be distinguished only with difficulty which
of these people act out of inner stupidity or incompetence and which only
pretend to for certain reasons. Especially with the so-called religious
reformers on an old Germanic basis, I always have the feeling that they
were sent by those powers which do not want the resurrection of our people.
For their whole activity leads the people away from the common struggle
against the common enemy, the Jew, and instead lets them waste their strength
on inner religious squabbles as senseless as they are disastrous. For these
very reasons the establishment of a strong central power implying the unconditional
authority of a Kadership is necessary in the movement. By it alone can such
ruinous elements be squelched. And for this reason the greatest enemies
of a uniform, strictly led and conducted movement are to be found in the
circles of these folkish wandering Jews. In the movement they hate the power
that checks their mischief.Not for nothing did the young movement establish a definite
program in which it did not use the word 'folkish.' The concept folkish,
in view of its conceptual boundlessness, is no possible basis for a movement
and offers no standard for membership in one. The more indefinable this
concept is in practice, the more and broader interpretations it permits,
the greater becomes the possibility of invoking its authority. The insertion
of such an indefinable and variously interpretable concept into the political
struggle leads to the destruction of any strict fighting solidarity, since
the latter does not permit leaving to the individual the definition of his
faith and will.And it is disgraceful to see all the people who run around today
with the word 'folkish' on their caps and how many have their own interpretation
of this concept. A Bavarian professor by the name of Bayer,l a famous fighter
with spiritual weapons, rich in equally spiritual marches on Berlin, thinks
that the concept folkish consists only in a monarchistic attitude. This
learned mind, however, has thus far forgotten to give a closer explanation
of the identity of our German monarchs of the past with the folkish opinion
of today. And I fear that in this the gentleman would not easily succeed.
For anything less folkish than most of the Germanic monarchic state formations
can hardly be imagined. If this were not so, they would never have disappeared,
or their disappearance would offer proof of the unsoundness of the folkish
outlook.And so everyone shoots off his mouth about this concept as he
happens to understand it. As a basis for a movement of political struggle,
such a multiplicity of opinions is out of the question.I shall not even speak of the unworldliness of these folkish
Saint Johns of the twentieth century or their ignorance of the popular soul.
It is sufliciently illustrated by the ridicule with which they are treated
by the Left, which lets them talk and iaughs at them.Anyone in this world who does not succeed in being hated by
his adversaries does not seem to me to be worth much as a friend. And thus
the friendship of these people for our young movement was not only worthless,
but solely and always harmful, and it was also the main reason why, first
of all, we chose the name of 'party'-we had grounds for hoping that by this
alone a whole swarm of these folkish sleepwalkers would be frightened away
from us-and why in the second place we termed ourselves National Socialist
German Workers' Party.The first expression kept away the antiquity enthusiasts, the
big-mouths and superficial proverb-makers of the so-called folkish idea,'
and the second freed us from the entire host of knights of the 'spiritual
sword,' all the poor wretches who wield the 'spiritual weapon' as a protecting
shield to hide their actual cowardice.It goes without saying that in the following period we were
attacked hardest especially by these last, not actively, of course, but
only with the pen, just as you would expect from such folkish goose-quills.
For them our principle, 'Against those who attack us with force we will
defend ourselves with force,' had something terrifying about it. They persistently
reproached us, not only with brutal worship of the blackjack, but with lack
of spirit as such. The fact that in a public meeting a Demosthenes can be
brought to silence if only fifty idiots, supported by their voices and their
fists, refuse to let him speak, makes no impression whatever on such a quack.
His inborn cowardice never lets him get into such danger. For he does not
work 'noisily' and 'obtrusively,' but in 'silence.' Even today r cannot warn our young movement enough against falling
into the net of these so-called 'silent workers.' They are not only cowards,
but they are also always incompetents and do-nothings. A man who knows a
thing, who is aware of a given danger, and sees the possibility of a remedy
with his own eyes, has the duty and obligation, by God, not to work 'silently,'
but to stand up before the whole public against the evil and for its cure.
If he does not do so, he is a disloyal, miserable weakling who fails either
from cowardice or from laziness and inability. To be sure, this does not
apply at all to most of these people, for they know absolutely nothing,
but behave as though they knew God knows what; they can do nothing but try
to swindle the whole world with their tricks; they are lazy, but with the
'silent' work they claim to do, they arouse the impression of an enormous
and conscientious activity; in short, they are swindlers, political crooks
who hate the honest work of others. As soon as one of these folkish moths
praises the darkness 1 of silence, we can bet a thousand to one that by
it he produces nothing, but steals, steals from the fruits of other people's
work.
To top all this, there is the arrogance and conceited effrontery with which
this lazy, light-shunning rabble fall upon the work of others, trying to
criticize it from above, thus in reality aiding the mortal enemies of our
nationality.
Every last agitator who possesses the courage to stand on a tavern table
among his adversaries, to defend his opinions with manly forthrightness,
does more than a thousand of these lying, treacherous sneaks. He will surely-
be able to convert one man or another and win him for the movement. It will
be possible to examine his achievement and establish the effect of his activity
by its results. Only the cowardly swindlers who praise their 'silent' work
and thus wrap themselves in the protective cloak of a despicable anonymity,
are good for nothing and may in the truest sense of the word be considered
drones in the resurrection of ourpeople.
# #At the beginning of 1920, I urged the holding of the first great
mass meeting. Differences of opinion arose. A few leading party members
regarded the affair as premature and hence disastrous in effect. The Red
press had begun to concern itself with us and we were fortunate enough gradually
to achieve its hatred. We had begun to speak in the discussions at other
meetings. Of course, each of us was at once shouted down. There was, however,
some success. People got to know us and proportionately as their knowledge
of us deepened, the aversion and rage against us grew. And thus we were
entitled to hope that in our first great mass meeting we would be visited
by a good many of our friends from the Red camp.I, too, realized that there was great probability of the meeting
being broken up. But the struggle had to be carried through, if not now,
a few months later. It was entirely in our power to make the movement eternal
on the very first day by blindly and ruthlessly fighting for it. I knew
above all the mentality of the adherents of the Red side far too well, not
to know that resistance to the utmost not only makes the biggest impression,
but also wins supporters. And so we just had to be resolved to put up this
resistance.Herr Harrer,l then first chairman of the party, felt he could
not support my views with regard to the time chosen and consequently, being
an honest, upright man, he withdrew from the leadership of the party. His
place was taken by Herr Anton Drexler. I had reserved for myself the organization
of propaganda and began ruthlessly to carry it out.And so, the date of February 4, 19202 was set for the holding
of this first great mass meeting of the still unknown movement.I personally conducted the preparations. They were very brief.
Altogether the whole apparatus was adjusted to make lightning decisions.
Its aim was to enable us to take a position on current questions in the
form of mass meetings within twenty-four hours. They were to be announced
by posters and leaflets whose content was determined according to those
guiding principles which in rough outlines I have set down in my treatise
on propaganda. Effect on the broad masses, concentration on a few points,
constant repetition of the same, self-assured and self-reliant framing of
the text in the forms of an apodictic statement, greatest perseverance in
distribution and patience in awaiting the effect.On principle, the color red was chosen; it is the most exciting;
we knew it would infuriate and provoke our adversaries the most and thus
bring us to their attention and memory whether they liked it or not.In the following period the inner fraternization in Bavaria
between the Marxists and the Center as a political party was most clearly
shown in the concern with which the ruling Bavarian People's Party tried
to weaken the effect of our posters on the Red working masses and later
to prohibit them. If the police found no other way to proceed against them,
'considerations of traffic' had to do the trick, till finally, to please
the inner, silent Red ally, these posters, which had given back hundreds
of thousands of workers, incited and seduced by internationalism, to their
German nationality, were forbidden entirely with the helping hand of a so-called
German National People's Party. As an appendix and example to our young
movement, I am adding a number of these proclamations. They come from a
period embracing nearly three years; they can best illustrate the mighty
struggle which the young movement fought at this time. They will also bear
witness to posterity of the will and honesty of our convictions and the
despotism of the so-called national authorities in prohibiting, just because
they personally found it uncomfortable, a nationalization which would have
won back broad masses of our nationality.They will also help to destroy the opinion that there had been
a national government as such in Bavaria and also document for posterity
the fact that the national Bavaria of 1919, 1920, 1921 1922, 1923 was not
forsooth the result of a national government, but that the government was
merely forced to take consideration of a people that was gradually feeling
nationalThe governments themselves did everything to eliminate this
process of recovery and to make it impossible.Here only two men must be excluded:Ernst Pohner, the police president at that tirne, and Chief
Deputy frick his faithful advisor, were the only higher state officials
who even then had the courage to be first Germans and then officials. Ernst
Pohner was the only man in a responsible post who did not curry favor with
the masses, but felt responsible to his nationality and was ready to risk
and sacrifice everything, even if necessary his personal existence, for
the resurrection of the German people whom he loved above all things. And
for this reason he was always a troublesome thorn in the eyes of those venal
officials the law of whose actions was prescribed, not by the interest of
their people and the necessary uprising for its freedom, but by the boss's
orders, without regard for the welfare of the national trust confided in
them.And above all he was one of those natures who, contrasting with
most of the guardians of our so-called state authority, do not fear the
enmity of traitors to the people and the nation, but long for it as for
a treasure which a decent man must take for granted. The hatred of Jews
and Marxists, their whole campaign of lies and slander, were for him the
sole happiness amid the misery of our people.
A man of granite honesty, of antique simplicity and German straightforwardness,
for whom the words 'Sooner dead than a slave ' were no phrase but the essence
of his whole being.He and his collaborator, Dr. Frick, are in my eyes the only
men in a state position who possess the right to be called cocreators of
a national Bavaria.Before we proceeded to hold our first mass meeting, not only
did the necessary propaganda material have to be made ready, but the main
points of the program also had to be put into print.In the second volume I shall thoroughly develop the guiding
principles which we had in mind, particularly in framing the program. Here
I shall only state that it was done, not only to give the young movement
form and content, but to make its aims understandable to the broad masses.Circles of the so-called intelligentsia have mocked and ridiculed
this and attempted to criticize it. But the soundness of our point of view
at that time has been shown by the effectiveness of this program.In these years I have seen dozens of new movements arise and
thev have all vanished and evaporated without trace. A single one remains:
The National Socialist German Workers' Party. And today more than ever I
harbor the conviction that people can combat it, that they can attempt to
paralyze it, that petty party ministers can forbid us to speak and write,
but that they will never prevent the victory of our ideas.When not even memory will reveal the names of the entire present-day
state conception and its advocates, the fundamentals of the National Socialist
program will be the foundations of a coming state.Our four months' activities at meetings up to January, 1920,
had slowly enabled us to save up the small means that we needed for printing
our first leaflet, our first poster, and our program.If I take the movement's first large mass meeting as the conclusion
of this volume, it is because by it the party burst the narrow bonds of
a small club and for the first time exerted a determining infiuence on the
mightiest factor of our tirne, public opinion.I myself at that time had but one concern: Will the hall be
filled, or will we speak to a yawning hall? 1 I had the unshakable l inner
conviction that if the people came, the day was sure to be a great success
for the young movement. And so I anxiously looked forward to that evening.The meeting was to be opened at 7:30. At 7:15 I entered the
Festsaal of the Hofbrauhaus on the Platzl in Munich, and my heart nearly
burst for joy. The gigantic hall-for at that time it still seemed to me
gigantic-was overcrowded with people, shoulder to shoulder, a mass numbering
almost two thousand people. And above all-those people to whom we wanted
to appeal had come. Far more than half the hall seemed to be occupied by
Communists and Independents. They had resolved that our first demonstration
would come to a speedy end.But it turned out differently. After the first speaker had finished,
I took the floor. A few minutes later there was a hail of shouts, there
were violent dashes in the hall, a handful of the most faithful war comrades
and other supporters battled with the disturbers, and only little by little
were able to restore order.I was able to go on speaking. After half an hour the applause
slowly began to drown out the screaming and shouting.I now took up the program and began to explain it for the first
time.From minute to minute the interruptions were increasingly drowned
out by shouts of applause. And when I finally submitted the twenty-five
theses, point for point, to the masses and asked them personally to pronounce
judgment on them, one after another was accepted with steadily mounting
joy, unanimously and again unanimously, and when the last thesis had found
its way to the heart of the masses, there stood before me a hall full of
people united by a new conviction, a new faith, a new will.When after nearly four hours the hall began to empty and the
crowd, shoulder to shoulder, began to move, shove, press toward the exit
like a slow stream, I knew that now the principles of a movement which could
no longer be forgotten were moving out among the German people.
A fire was kindled from whose flame one day the sword must come which would
regain freedom for the Germanic Siegfried and life for the German nation.And side by side with the coming resurrection, I sensed that
the goddess of inexorable vengeance for the perjured deed of November 9,
1919, was striding forth.Thus slowly the hall emptied.The movement took its course.
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter I Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter I: Philosophy and Party

On February 24th, 1920, the first great mass meeting under the auspices of the new movement took place. In the Banquet Hall of the Hofbrauhaus in Munich the twenty-five theses which constituted the programme of our new party were expounded to an audience of nearly two thousand people and each thesis was enthusiastically received.
Thus we brought to the knowledge of the public those first principles and lines of action along which the new struggle was to be conducted for the abolition of a confused mass of obsolete ideas and opinions which had obscure and often pernicious tendencies. A new force was to make its appearance among the timid and feckless bourgeoisie. This force was destined to impede the triumphant advance of the Marxists and bring the Chariot of Fate to a standstill just as it seemed about to reach its goal.
It was evident that this new movement could gain the public significance and support which are necessary pre-requisites in such a gigantic struggle only if it succeeded from the very outset in awakening a sacrosanct conviction in the hearts of its followers, that here it was not a case of introducing a new electoral slogan into the political field but that an entirely new world view, which was of a radical significance, had to be promoted.
One must try to recall the miserable jumble of opinions that used to be arrayed side by side to form the usual Party Programme, as it was called, and one must remember how these opinions used to be brushed up or dressed in a new form from time to time. If we would properly understand these programmatic monstrosities we must carefully investigate the motives which inspired the average bourgeois 'programme committee'.
Those people are always influenced by one and the same preoccupation when they introduce something new into their programme or modify something already contained in it. That preoccupation is directed towards the results of the next election. The moment these artists in parliamentary government have the first glimmering of a suspicion that their darling public may be ready to kick up its heels and escape from the harness of the old party wagon they begin to paint the shafts with new colours. On such occasions the party astrologists and horoscope readers, the so-called 'experienced men' and 'experts', come forward. For the most part they are old parliamentary hands whose political schooling has furnished them with ample experience. They can remember former occasions when the masses showed signs of losing patience and they now diagnose the menace of a similar situation arising. Resorting to their old prescription, they form a 'committee'. They go around among the darling public and listen to what is being said. They dip their noses into the newspapers and gradually begin to scent what it is that their darlings, the broad masses, are wishing for, what they reject and what they are hoping for. The groups that belong to each trade or business, and even office employees, are carefully studied and their innermost desires are investigated. The 'malicious slogans' of the opposition from which danger is threatened are now suddenly looked upon as worthy of reconsideration, and it often happens that these slogans, to the great astonishment of those who originally coined and circulated them, now appear to be quite harmless and indeed are to be found among the dogmas of the old parties.
So the committees meet to revise the old programme and draw up a new one.
For these people change their convictions just as the soldier changes his shirt in war V when the old one is bug-eaten. In the new programme everyone gets everything he wants. The farmer is assured that the interests of agriculture will be safeguarded. The industrialist is assured of protection for his products. The consumer is assured that his interests will be protected in the market prices. Teachers are given higher salaries and civil servants will have better pensions. Widows and orphans will receive generous assistance from the State. Trade will be promoted. The tariff will be lowered and even the taxes, though they cannot be entirely abolished, will be almost abolished. It sometimes happens that one section of the public is forgotten or that one of the demands mooted among the public has not reached the ears of the party. This is also hurriedly patched on to the whole, should there be any space available for it: until finally it is felt that there are good grounds for hoping that the whole normal host of philistines, including their wives, will have their anxieties laid to rest and will beam with satisfaction once again. And so, internally armed with faith in the goodness of God and the impenetrable stupidity of the electorate, the struggle for what is called 'the reconstruction of the Reich' can now begin.
When the election day is over and the parliamentarians have held their last public meeting for the next five years, when they can leave their job of getting the populace to toe the line and can now devote themselves to higher and more pleasing tasks V then the programme committee is dissolved and the struggle for the progressive reorganization of public affairs becomes once again a business of earning one's daily bread, which for the parliamentarians means merely the attendance that is required in order to be able to draw their daily remunerations. Morning after morning the honourable deputy wends his way to the House, and though he may not enter the Chamber itself he gets at least as far as the front hall, where he will find the register on which the names of the deputies in attendance have to be inscribed. As a part of his onerous service to his constituents he enters his name, and in return receives a small indemnity as a well-earned reward for his unceasing and exhausting labours.
When four years have passed, or in the meantime if there should be some critical weeks during which the parliamentary corporations have to face the danger of being dissolved, these honourable gentlemen become suddenly seized by an irresistible desire to act. Just as the grub-worm cannot help growing into a cock-chafer, these parliamentarian worms leave the great House of Puppets and flutter on new wings out among the beloved public. They address the electors once again, give an account of the enormous labours they have accomplished and emphasize the malicious obstinacy of their opponents. They do not always meet with grateful applause; for occasionally the unintelligent masses throw rude and unfriendly remarks in their faces. When this spirit of public ingratitude reaches a certain pitch there is only one way of saving the situation. The prestige of the party must be burnished up again. The programme has to be amended. The committee is called into existence once again. And the swindle begins anew. Once we understand the impenetrable stupidity of our public we cannot be surprised that such tactics turn out successful. Led by the Press and blinded once again by the alluring appearance of the new programme, the bourgeois as well as the proletarian herds of voters faithfully return to the common stall and re-elect their old deceivers. The 'people's man' and labour candidate now change back again into the parliamentarian grub and become fat and rotund as they batten on the leaves that grow on the tree of public life V to be retransformed into the glittering butterfly after another four years have passed.
Scarcely anything else can be so depressing as to watch this process in sober reality and to be the eyewitness of this repeatedly recurring fraud. On a spiritual training ground of that kind it is not possible for the bourgeois forces to develop the strength which is necessary to carry on the fight against the organized might of Marxism. Indeed they have never seriously thought of doing so. Though these parliamentary quacks who represent the white race are generally recognized as persons of quite inferior mental capacity, they are shrewd enough to know that they could not seriously entertain the hope of being able to use the weapon of Western Democracy to fight a doctrine for the advance of which Western Democracy, with all its accessories, is employed as a means to an end. Democracy is exploited by the Marxists for the purpose of paralysing their opponents and gaining for themselves a free hand to put their own methods into action. When certain groups of Marxists use all their ingenuity for the time being to make it be believed that they are inseparably attached to the principles of democracy, it may be well to recall the fact that when critical occasions arose these same gentlemen snapped their fingers at the principle of decision by majority vote, as that principle is understood by Western Democracy. Such was the case in those days when the bourgeois parliamentarians, in their monumental shortsightedness, believed that the security of the Reich was guaranteed because it had an overwhelming numerical majority in its favour, and the Marxists did not hesitate suddenly to grasp supreme power in their own hands, backed by a mob of loafers, deserters, political place-hunters and Jewish dilettanti. That was a blow in the face for that democracy in which so many parliamentarians believed. Only those credulous parliamentary wizards who represented bourgeois democracy could have believed that the brutal determination of those whose interest it is to spread the Marxist world-pest, of which they are the carriers, could for a moment, now or in the future, be held in check by the magical formulas of Western Parliamentarianism. Marxism will march shoulder to shoulder with democracy until it succeeds indirectly in securing for its own criminal purposes even the support of those whose minds are nationally orientated and whom Marxism strives to exterminate. But if the Marxists should one day come to believe that there was a danger that from this witch's cauldron of our parliamentary democracy a majority vote might be concocted, which by reason of its numerical majority would be empowered to enact legislation and might use that power seriously to combat Marxism, then the whole parliamentarian hocus-pocus would be at an end. Instead of appealing to the democratic conscience, the standard bearers of the Red International would immediately send forth a furious rallying-cry among the proletarian masses and the ensuing fight would not take place in the sedate atmosphere of Parliament but in the factories and the streets. Then democracy would be annihilated forthwith. And what the intellectual prowess of the apostles who represented the people in Parliament had failed to accomplish would now be successfully carried out by the crow-bar and the sledge-hammer of the exasperated proletarian masses V just as in the autumn of 1918. At a blow they would awaken the bourgeois world to see the madness of thinking that the Jewish drive towards world-conquest can be effectually opposed by means of Western Democracy.
As I have said, only a very credulous soul could think of binding himself to observe the rules of the game when he has to face a player for whom those rules are nothing but a mere bluff or a means of serving his own interests, which means he will discard them when they prove no longer useful for his purpose.
All the parties that profess so-called bourgeois principles look upon political life as in reality a struggle for seats in Parliament. The moment their principles and convictions are of no further use in that struggle they are thrown overboard, as if they were sand ballast. And the programmes are constructed in such a way that they can be dealt with in like manner. But such practice has a correspondingly weakening effect on the strength of those parties. They lack the great magnetic force which alone attracts the broad masses; for these masses always respond to the compelling force which emanates from absolute faith in the ideas put forward, combined with an indomitable zest to fight for and defend them.
At a time in which the one side, armed with all the fighting power that springs from a systematic conception of life V even though it be criminal in a thousand ways V makes an attack against the established order the other side will be able to resist when it draws its strength from a new faith, which in our case is a political faith. This faith must supersede the weak and cowardly command to defend. In its stead we must raise the battle-cry of a courageous and ruthless attack. Our present movement is accused, especially by the so-called national bourgeois cabinet ministers V the Bavarian representatives of the Centre, for example V of heading towards a revolution. We have one answer to give to those political pigmies. We say to them: We are trying to make up for that which you, in your criminal stupidity, have failed to carry out. By your parliamentarian jobbing you have helped to drag the nation into ruin. But we, by our aggressive policy, are setting up a new philosophy of life which we shall defend with indomitable devotion. Thus we are building the steps on which our nation once again may ascend to the temple of freedom.
And so during the first stages of founding our movement we had to take special care that our militant group which fought for the establishment of a new and exalted political faith should not degenerate into a society for the promotion of parliamentarian interests.
The first preventive measure was to lay down a programme which of itself would tend towards developing a certain moral greatness that would scare away all the petty and weakling spirits who make up the bulk of our present party politicians.
Those fatal defects which finally led to Germany's downfall afford the clearest proof of how right we were in considering it absolutely necessary to set up programmatic aims which were sharply and distinctly defined.
Because we recognized the defects above mentioned, we realized that a new conception of the State had to be formed, which in itself became a part of our new conception of life in general.

In the first volume of this book I have already dealt with the term volkisch, and I said then that this term has not a sufficiently precise meaning to furnish the kernel around which a closely consolidated militant community could be formed. All kinds of people, with all kinds of divergent opinions, are parading about at the present moment under the device volkisch on their banners. Before I come to deal with the purposes and aims of the National Socialist Labour Party I want to establish a clear understanding of what is meant by the concept volkisch and herewith explain its relation to our party movement. The word volkisch does not express any clearly specified idea. It may be interpreted in several ways and in practical application it is just as general as the word 'religious', for instance. It is difficult to attach any precise meaning to this latter word, either as a theoretical concept or as a guiding principle in practical life. The word 'religious' acquires a precise meaning only when it is associated with a distinct and definite form through which the concept is put into practice. To say that a person is 'deeply religious' may be very fine phraseology; but, generally speaking, it tells us little or nothing. There may be some few people who are content with such a vague description and there may even be some to whom the word conveys a more or less definite picture of the inner quality of a person thus described. But, since the masses of the people are not composed of philosophers or saints, such a vague religious idea will mean for them nothing else than to justify each individual in thinking and acting according to his own bent. It will not lead to that practical faith into which the inner religious yearning is transformed only when it leaves the sphere of general metaphysical ideas and is moulded to a definite dogmatic belief. Such a belief is certainly not an end in itself, but the means to an end. Yet it is a means without which the end could never be reached at all. This end, however, is not merely something ideal; for at the bottom it is eminently practical. We must always bear in mind the fact that, generally speaking, the highest ideals are always the outcome of some profound vital need, just as the most sublime beauty owes its nobility of shape, in the last analysis, to the fact that the most beautiful form is the form that is best suited to the purpose it is meant to serve.
By helping to lift the human being above the level of mere animal existence, Faith really contributes to consolidate and safeguard its own existence. Taking humanity as it exists today and taking into consideration the fact that the religious beliefs which it generally holds and which have been consolidated through our education, so that they serve as moral standards in practical life, if we should now abolish religious teaching and not replace it by anything of equal value the result would be that the foundations of human existence would be seriously shaken. We may safely say that man does not live merely to serve higher ideals, but that these ideals, in their turn, furnish the necessary conditions of his existence as a human being. And thus the circle is closed.
Of course, the word 'religious' implies some ideas and beliefs that are fundamental. Among these we may reckon the belief in the immortality of the soul, its future existence in eternity, the belief in the existence of a Higher Being, and so on. But all these ideas, no matter how firmly the individual believes in them, may be critically analysed by any person and accepted or rejected accordingly, until the emotional concept or yearning has been transformed into an active service that is governed by a clearly defined doctrinal faith. Such a faith furnishes the practical outlet for religious feeling to express itself and thus opens the way through which it can be put into practice.
Without a clearly defined belief, the religious feeling would not only be worthless for the purposes of human existence but even might contribute towards a general disorganization, on account of its vague and multifarious tendencies.
What I have said about the word 'religious' can also be applied to the term volkisch. This word also implies certain fundamental ideas. Though these ideas are very important indeed, they assume such vague and indefinite forms that they cannot be estimated as having a greater value than mere opinions, until they become constituent elements in the structure of a political party. For in order to give practical force to the ideals that grow out of philosophical ideals and to answer the demands which are a logical consequence of such ideals, mere sentiment and inner longing are of no practical assistance, just as freedom cannot be won by a universal yearning for it. No. Only when the idealistic longing for independence is organized in such a way that it can fight for its ideal with military force, only then can the urgent wish of a people be transformed into a potent reality.
Every philosophy of life, even if it is a thousand times correct and of the highest benefit to mankind, will be of no practical service for the maintenance of a people as long as its principles have not yet become the rallying point of a militant movement. And, on its own side, this movement will remain a mere party until is has brought its ideals to victory and transformed its party doctrines into the new foundations of a State which gives the national community its final shape.
If an abstract conception of a general nature is to serve as the basis of a future development, then the first prerequisite is to form a clear understanding of the nature and character and scope of this conception. For only on such a basis can a movement he founded which will be able to draw the necessary fighting strength from the internal cohesion of its principles and convictions. From general ideas a political programme must be constructed and general ideas must receive the stamp of a definite political faith. Since this faith must be directed towards ends that have to be attained in the world of practical reality, not only must it serve the general ideal as such but it must also take into consideration the means that have to be employed for the triumph of the ideal. Here the practical wisdom of the statesman must come to the assistance of the abstract idea, which is correct in itself. In that way an eternal ideal, which has everlasting significance as a guiding star to mankind, must be adapted to the exigencies of human frailty so that its practical effect may not be frustrated at the very outset through those shortcomings which are general to mankind. The exponent of truth must here go hand in hand with him who has a practical knowledge of the soul of the people, so that from the realm of eternal verities and ideals what is suited to the capacities of human nature may be selected and given practical form.
To take abstract and general principles, derived from a philosophy which is based on a solid foundation of truth, and transform them into a militant community whose members have the same political faith V a community which is precisely defined, rigidly organized, of one mind and one will V such a transformation is the most important task of all; for the possibility of successfully carrying out the idea is dependent on the successful fulfilment of that task. Out of the army of millions who feel the truth of these ideas, and even may understand them to some extent, one man must arise. This man must have the gift of being able to expound general ideas in a clear and definite form, and, from the world of vague ideas shimmering before the minds of the masses, he must formulate principles that will be as clear-cut and firm as granite. He must fight for these principles as the only true ones, until a solid rock of common faith and common will emerges above the troubled waves of vagrant ideas.
The general justification of such action is to be sought in the necessity for it and the individual will be justified by his success.

If we try to penetrate to the inner meaning of the word volkisch we arrive at the following conclusions:
The current political conception of the world is that the State, though it possesses a creative force which can build up civilizations, has nothing in common with the concept of race as the foundation of the State. The State is considered rather as something which has resulted from economic necessity, or, at best, the natural outcome of the play of political forces and impulses. Such a conception of the foundations of the State, together with all its logical consequences, not only ignores the primordial racial forces that underlie the State, but it also leads to a policy in which the importance of the individual is minimized. If it be denied that races differ from one another in their powers of cultural creativeness, then this same erroneous notion must necessarily influence our estimation of the value of the individual. The assumption that all races are alike leads to the assumption that nations and individuals are equal to one another. And international Marxism is nothing but the application V effected by the Jew, Karl Marx V of a general conception of life to a definite profession of political faith; but in reality that general concept had existed long before the time of Karl Marx. If it had not already existed as a widely diffused infection the amazing political progress of the Marxist teaching would never have been possible. In reality what distinguished Karl Marx from the millions who were affected in the same way was that, in a world already in a state of gradual decomposition, he used his keen powers of prognosis to detect the essential poisons, so as to extract them and concentrate them, with the art of a necromancer, in a solution which would bring about the rapid destruction of the independent nations on the globe. But all this was done in the service of his race.
Thus the Marxist doctrine is the concentrated extract of the mentality which underlies the general concept of life today. For this reason alone it is out of the question and even ridiculous to think that what is called our bourgeois world can put up any effective fight against Marxism. For this bourgeois world is permeated with all those same poisons and its conception of life in general differs from Marxism only in degree and in the character of the persons who hold it. The bourgeois world is Marxist but believes in the possibility of a certain group of people V that is to say, the bourgeoisie V being able to dominate the world, while Marxism itself systematically aims at delivering the world into the hands of the Jews.
Over against all this, the volkisch concept of the world recognizes that the primordial racial elements are of the greatest significance for mankind. In principle, the State is looked upon only as a means to an end and this end is the conservation of the racial characteristics of mankind. Therefore on the volkisch principle we cannot admit that one race is equal to another. By recognizing that they are different, the volkisch concept separates mankind into races of superior and inferior quality. On the basis of this recognition it feels bound in conformity with the eternal Will that dominates the universe, to postulate the victory of the better and stronger and the subordination of the inferior and weaker. And so it pays homage to the truth that the principle underlying all Nature's operations is the aristocratic principle and it believes that this law holds good even down to the last individual organism. It selects individual values from the mass and thus operates as an organizing principle, whereas Marxism acts as a disintegrating solvent. The volkisch belief holds that humanity must have its ideals, because ideals are a necessary condition of human existence itself. But, on the other hand, it denies that an ethical ideal has the right to prevail if it endangers the existence of a race that is the standard-bearer of a higher ethical ideal. For in a world which would be composed of mongrels and negroids all ideals of human beauty and nobility and all hopes of an idealized future for our humanity would be lost forever.
On this planet of ours human culture and civilization are indissolubly bound up with the presence of the Aryan. If he should be exterminated or subjugated, then the dark shroud of a new barbarian era would enfold the earth.
To undermine the existence of human culture by exterminating its founders and custodians would be an execrable crime in the eyes of those who believe that the folk-idea lies at the basis of human existence. Whoever would dare to raise a profane hand against that highest image of God among His creatures would sin against the bountiful Creator of this marvel and would collaborate in the expulsion from Paradise.
Hence the folk concept of the world is in profound accord with Nature's will; because it restores the free play of the forces which will lead the race through stages of sustained reciprocal education towards a higher type, until finally the best portion of mankind will possess the earth and will be free to work in every domain all over the world and even reach spheres that lie outside the earth.
We all feel that in the distant future many may be faced with problems which can be solved only by a superior race of human beings, a race destined to become master of all the other peoples and which will have at its disposal the means and resources of the whole world.

It is self-evident that so general a statement of the meaningful content of a folkish philosophy can be easily interpreted in a thousand different ways. As a matter of fact there is scarcely one of our recent political movements that does not refer at some point to this conception of the world. But the fact that this conception of the world still maintains its independent existence in face of all the others proves that their ways of looking at life are quite difierent from this. Thus the Marxist conception, directed by a central organization endowed with supreme authority, is opposed by a motley crew of opinions which is not very impressive in face of the solid phalanx presented by the enemy. Victory cannot be achieved with such weak weapons. Only when the international idea, politically organized by Marxism, is confronted by the folk idea, equally well organized in a systematic way and equally well led V only then will the fighting energy in the one camp be able to meet that of the other on an equal footing; and victory will be found on the side of eternal truth.
But a general conception of life can never be given an organic embodiment until it is precisely and definitely formulated. The function which dogma fulfils in religious belief is parallel to the function which party principles fulfil for a political party which is in the process of being built up.
Therefore, for the conception of life that is based on the folk idea it is necessary that an instrument be forged which can be used in fighting for this ideal, similar to the Marxist party organization which clears the way for internationalism.
This is the goal pursued by the National Socialist German Workers' Party.
The folk conception must therefore be definitely formulated so that it may be organically incorporated in the party. That is a necessary prerequisite for the success of this idea. And that it is so is very clearly proved even by the indirect acknowledgment of those who oppose such an amalgamation of the folk idea with party principles. The very people who never tire of insisting again and again that the conception of life based on the folk idea can never be the exclusive property of a single group, because it lies dormant or 'lives' in myriads of hearts, only confirm by their own statements the simple fact that the general presence of such ideas in the hearts of millions of men has not proved sufficient to impede the victory of the opposing ideas, which are championed by a political party organized on the principle of class conflict. If that were not so, the German people ought already to have gained a gigantic victory instead of finding themselves on the brink of the abyss. The international ideology achieved success because it was organized in a militant political party which was always ready to take the offensive. If hitherto the ideas opposed to the international concept have had to give way before the latter the reason is that they lacked a united front to fight for their cause. A doctrine which forms a definite outlook on life cannot struggle and triumph by allowing the right of free interpretation of its general teaching, but only by defining that teaching in certain articles of faith that have to be accepted and incorporating it in a political organization.
Therefore I considered it my special duty to extract from the extensive but vague contents of a general world view the ideas which were essential and give them a more or less dogmatic form. Because of their precise and clear meaning, these ideas are suited to the purpose of uniting in a common front all those who are ready to accept them as principles. In other words: The National Socialist German Workers' Party extracts the essential principles from the general conception of the world which is based on the folk idea. On these principles it establishes a political doctrine which takes into account the practical realities of the day, the nature of the times, the available human material and all its deficiencies. Through this political doctrine it is possible to bring great masses of the people into an organization which is constructed as rigidly as it could be. Such an organization is the main preliminary that is necessary for the final triumph of this world view.

----------

[Previous Chapter (The First Period of Development of the National Socialist German Workers' Party)] [Home] [Next Chapter (The State)]
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter II Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter II: The State

By 1920-1921 certain circles belonging to the present outlived bourgeois class accused our movement again and again of taking up a negative attitude towards the modern State. For that reason the motley gang of camp followers attached to the various political parties, representing a heterogeneous conglomeration of political views, assumed the right of utilizing all available means to suppress the protagonists of this young movement which was preaching a new political gospel. Our opponents deliberately ignored the fact that the bourgeois class itself stood for no uniform opinion as to what the State really meant and that the bourgeoisie did not and could not give any coherent definition of this institution. Those whose duty it is to explain what is meant when we speak of the State, hold chairs in State universities, often in the department of constitutional law, and consider it their highest duty to find explanations and justifications for the more or less fortunate existence of that particular form of State which provides them with their daily bread. The more absurd such a form of State is the more obscure and artificial and incomprehensible are the definitions which are advanced to explain the purpose of its existence. What, for instance, could a royal and imperial university professor write about the meaning and purpose of a State in a country whose statal form represented the greatest monstrosity of the twentieth century? That would be a difficult undertaking indeed, in view of the fact that the contemporary professor of constitutional law is obliged not so much to serve the cause of truth but rather to serve a certain definite purpose. And this purpose is to defend at all costs the existence of that monstrous human mechanism which we now call the State. Nobody can be surprised if concrete facts are evaded as far as possible when the problem of the State is under discussion and if professors adopt the tactics of concealing themselves in morass of abstract values and duties and purposes which are described as 'ethical' and 'moral'.
Generally speaking, these various theorists may be classed in three groups:
1. Those who hold that the State is a more or less voluntary association of men who have agreed to set up and obey a ruling authority.
This is numerically the largest group. In its ranks are to be found those who worship our present principle of legalized authority. In their eyes the will of the people has no part whatever in the whole affair. For them the fact that the State exists is sufficient reason to consider it sacred and inviolable. To protect the madness of human brains, a positively dog-like adoration of so-called state authority is needed. In the minds of these people the means is substituted for the end, by a sort of sleight-of-hand movement. The State no longer exists for the purpose of serving men but men exist for the purpose of adoring the authority of the State, which is vested in its functionaries, even down to the smallest official. So as to prevent this placid and ecstatic adoration from changing into something that might become in any way disturbing, the authority of the State is limited simply to the task of preserving order and tranquillity. Therewith it is no longer either a means or an end. The State must see that public peace and order are preserved and, in their turn, order and peace must make the existence of the State possible. All life must move between these two poles. In Bavaria this view is upheld by the artful politicians of the Bavarian Centre, which is called the 'Bavarian Populist Party'. In Austria the Black-and-Yellow legitimists adopt a similar attitude. In the Reich, unfortunately, the so-called conservative elements follow the same line of thought.
2. The second group is somewhat smaller in numbers. It includes those who would make the existence of the State dependent on some conditions at least. They insist that not only should there be a uniform system of government but also, if possible, that only one language should be used, though solely for technical reasons of administration. In this view the authority of the State is no longer the sole and exclusive end for which the State exists. It must also promote the good of its subjects. Ideas of 'freedom', mostly based on a misunderstanding of the meaning of that word, enter into the concept of the State as it exists in the minds of this group. The form of government is no longer considered inviolable simply because it exists. It must submit to the test of practical efficiency. Its venerable age no longer protects it from being criticized in the light of modern exigencies. Moreover, in this view the first duty laid upon the State is to guarantee the economic well-being of the individual citizens. Hence it is judged from the practical standpoint and according to general principles based on the idea of economic returns. The chief representatives of this theory of the State are to be found among the average German bourgeoisie, especially our liberal democrats.
3. The third group is numerically the smallest. In the State they discover a means for the realization of tendencies that arise from a policy of power, on the part of a people who are ethnically homogeneous and speak the same language. But those who hold this view are not clear about what they mean by 'tendencies arising from a policy of power'. A common language is postulated not only because they hope that thereby the State would be furnished with a solid basis for the extension of its power outside its own frontiers, but also because they think V though falling into a fundamental error by doing so V that such a common language would enable them to carry out a process of nationalization in a definite direction.
During the last century it was lamentable for those who had to witness it, to notice how in these circles I have just mentioned the word 'Germanize' was frivolously played with, though the practice was often well intended. I well remember how in the days of my youth this very term used to give rise to notions which were false to an incredible degree. Even in Pan-German circles one heard the opinion expressed that the Austrian Germans might very well succeed in Germanizing the Austrian Slavs, if only the Government would be ready to co-operate. Those people did not understand that a policy of Germanization can be carried out only as regards human beings. What they mostly meant by Germanization was a process of forcing other people to speak the German language. But it is almost inconceivable how such a mistake could be made as to think that a Negro or a Chinaman will become a German because he has learned the German language and is willing to speak German for the future, and even to cast his vote for a German political party. Our bourgeois nationalists could never clearly see that such a process of Germanization is in reality de-Germanization; for even if all the outstanding and visible differences between the various peoples could be bridged over and finally wiped out by the use of a common language, that would produce a process of bastardization which in this case would not signify Germanization but the annihilation of the German element. In the course of history it has happened only too often that a conquering race succeeded by external force in compelling the people whom they subjected to speak the tongue of the conqueror and that after a thousand years their language was spoken by another people and that thus the conqueror finally turned out to be the conquered.
What makes a people or, to be more correct, a race, is not language but blood. Therefore it would be justifiable to speak of Germanization only if that process could change the blood of the people who would be subjected to it, which is obviously impossible. A change would be possible only by a mixture of blood, but in this case the quality of the superior race would be debased. The final result of such a mixture would be that precisely those qualities would be destroyed which had enabled the conquering race to achieve victory over an inferior people. It is especially the cultural creativeness which disappears when a superior race intermixes with an inferior one, even though the resultant mongrel race should excel a thousandfold in speaking the language of the race that once had been superior. For a certain time there will be a conflict between the different mentalities, and it may be that a nation which is in a state of progressive degeneration will at the last moment rally its cultural creative power and once again produce striking examples of that power. But these results are due only to the activity of elements that have remained over from the superior race or hybrids of the first crossing in whom the superior blood has remained dominant and seeks to assert itself. But this will never happen with the final descendants of such hybrids. These are always in a state of cultural retrogression.
We must consider it as fortunate that a Germanization of Austria according to the plan of Joseph II did not succeed. Probably the result would have been that the Austrian State would have been able to survive, but at the same time participation in the use of a common language would have debased the racial quality of the German element. In the course of centuries a certain herd instinct might have been developed but the herd itself would have deteriorated in quality. A national State might have arisen, but a people who had been culturally creative would have disappeared.
For the German nation it was better that this process of intermixture did not take place, although it was not renounced for any high-minded reasons but simply through the short-sighted pettiness of the Habsburgs. If it had taken place the German people could not now be looked upon as a cultural factor.
Not only in Austria, however, but also in the Reich, these so-called national circles were, and still are, under the influence of similar erroneous ideas. Unfortunately, a policy towards Poland, whereby the East was to be Germanized, was demanded by many and was based on the same false reasoning. Here again it was believed that the Polish people could be Germanized by being compelled to use the German language. The result would have been fatal. A people of foreign race would have had to use the German language to express modes of thought that were foreign to the German, thus compromising by its own inferiority the dignity and nobility of our nation.
It is revolting to think how much damage is indirectly done to German prestige today through the fact that the German patois of the Jews when they enter the United States enables them to be classed as Germans, because many Americans are quite ignorant of German conditions. Among us, nobody would think of taking these unhygienic immigrants from the East for members of the German race and nation merely because they mostly speak German.
What has been beneficially Germanized in the course of history was the land which our ancestors conquered with the sword and colonized with German tillers of the soil. To the extent that they introduced foreign blood into our national body in this colonization, they have helped to disintegrate our racial character, a process which has resulted in our German hyper-individualism, though this latter characteristic is even now frequently praised.
In this third group also there are people who, to a certain degree, consider the State as an end in itself. Hence they consider its preservation as one of the highest aims of human existence. Our analysis may be summed up as follows:
All these opinions have this common feature and failing: that they are not grounded in a recognition of the profound truth that the capacity for creating cultural values is essentially based on the racial element and that, in accordance with this fact, the paramount purpose of the State is to preserve and improve the race; for this is an indispensable condition of all progress in human civilization.
Thus the Jew, Karl Marx, was able to draw the final conclusions from these false concepts and ideas on the nature and purpose of the State. By eliminating from the concept of the State all thought of the obligation which the State bears towards the race, without finding any other formula that might be universally accepted, the bourgeois teaching prepared the way for that doctrine which rejects the State as such.
That is why the bourgeois struggle against Marxist internationalism is absolutely doomed to fail in this field. The bourgeois classes have already sacrificed the basic principles which alone could furnish a solid footing for their ideas. Their crafty opponent has perceived the defects in their structure and advances to the assault on it with those weapons which they themselves have placed in his hands though not meaning to do so.
Therefore any new movement which is based on the racial concept of the world will first of all have to put forward a clear and logical doctrine of the nature and purpose of the State.
The fundamental principle is that the State is not an end in itself but the means to an end. It is the preliminary condition under which alone a higher form of human civilization can be developed, but it is not the source of such a development. This is to be sought exclusively in the actual existence of a race which is endowed with the gift of cultural creativeness. There may be hundreds of excellent States on this earth, and yet if the Aryan, who is the creator and custodian of civilization, should disappear, all culture that is on an adequate level with the spiritual needs of the superior nations today would also disappear. We may go still further and say that the fact that States have been created by human beings does not in the least exclude the possiblity that the human race may become extinct, because the superior intellectual faculties and powers of adaptation would be lost when the racial bearer of these faculties and powers disappeared.
If, for instance, the surface of the globe should be shaken today by some seismic convulsion and if a new Himalaya would emerge from the waves of the sea, this one catastrophe alone might annihilate human civilization. No State could exist any longer. All order would be shattered. And all vestiges of cultural products which had been evolved through thousands of years would disappear. Nothing would be left but one tremendous field of death and destruction submerged in floods of water and mud. If, however, just a few people would survive this terrible havoc, and if these people belonged to a definite race that had the innate powers to build up a civilization, when the commotion had passed, the earth would again bear witness to the creative power of the human spirit, even though a span of a thousand years might intervene. Only with the extermination of the last race that possesses the gift of cultural creativeness, and indeed only if all the individuals of that race had disappeared, would the earth definitely be turned into a desert. On the other hand, modern history furnishes examples to show that statal institutions which owe their beginnings to members of a race which lacks creative genius are not made of stuff that will endure. Just as many varieties of prehistoric animals had to give way to others and leave no trace behind them, so man will also have to give way, if he loses that definite faculty which enables him to find the weapons that are necessary for him to maintain his own existence.
It is not the State as such that brings about a certain definite advance in cultural progress. The State can only protect the race that is the cause of such progress. The State as such may well exist without undergoing any change for hundreds of years, though the cultural faculties and the general life of the people, which is shaped by these faculties, may have suffered profound changes by reason of the fact that the State did not prevent a process of racial mixture from taking place. The present State, for instance, may continue to exist in a mere mechanical form, but the poison of miscegenation permeating the national body brings about a cultural decadence which manifests itself already in various symptoms that are of a detrimental character.
Thus the indispensable prerequisite for the existence of a superior quality of human beings is not the State but the race, which is alone capable of producing that higher human quality.
This capacity is always there, though it will lie dormant unless external circumstances awaken it to action. Nations, or rather races, which are endowed with the faculty of cultural creativeness possess this faculty in a latent form during periods when the external circumstances are unfavourable for the time being and therefore do not allow the faculty to express itself effectively. It is therefore outrageously unjust to speak of the pre-Christian Germans as barbarians who had no civilization. They never have been such. But the severity of the climate that prevailed in the northern regions which they inhabited imposed conditions of life which hampered a free development of their creative faculties. If they had come to the fairer climate of the South, with no previous culture whatsoever, and if they acquired the necessary human material V that is to say, men of an inferior race V to serve them as working implements, the cultural faculty dormant in them would have splendidly blossomed forth, as happened in the case of the Greeks, for example. But this primordial creative faculty in cultural things was not solely due to their northern climate. For the Laplanders or the Eskimos would not have become creators of a culture if they were transplanted to the South. No, this wonderful creative faculty is a special gift bestowed on the Aryan, whether it lies dormant in him or becomes active, according as the adverse conditions of nature prevent the active expression of that faculty or favourable circumstances permit it.
From these facts the following conclusions may be drawn:
The State is only a means to an end. Its end and its purpose is to preserve and promote a community of human beings who are physically as well as spiritually kindred. Above all, it must preserve the existence of the race, thereby providing the indispensable condition for the free development of all the forces dormant in this race. A great part of these faculties will always have to be employed in the first place to maintain the physical existence of the race, and only a small portion will be free to work in the field of intellectual progress. But, as a matter of fact, the one is always the necessary counterpart of the other.
Those States which do not serve this purpose have no justification for their existence. They are monstrosities. The fact that they do exist is no more of a justification than the successful raids carried out by a band of pirates can be considered a justification of piracy.
We National Socialists, who are fighting for a new philosophy of life must never take our stand on the famous 'basis of facts', and especially not on mistaken facts. If we did so, we should cease to be the protagonists of a new and great idea and would become slaves in the service of the fallacy which is dominant today. We must make a clear-cut distinction between the vessel and its contents. The State is only the vessel and the race is what it contains. The vessel can have a meaning only if it preserves and safeguards the contents. Otherwise it is worthless.
Hence the supreme purpose of the folkish State is to guard and preserve those original racial elements which, through their work in the cultural field, create that beauty and dignity which are characteristic of a higher mankind. We, as Aryans, can consider the State only as the living organism of a people, an organism which does not merely maintain the existence of a people, but functions in such a way as to lead its people to a position of supreme liberty by the progressive development of the intellectual and cultural faculties.
What they want to impose upon us as a State today is in most cases nothing but a monstrosity, the product of a profound human aberration which brings untold suffering in its train.
We National Socialists know that in holding these views we take up a revolutionary stand in the world of today and that we are branded as revolutionaries. But our views and our conduct will not be determined by the approbation or disapprobation of our contemporaries, but only by our duty to follow a truth which we have acknowledged. In doing this we have reason to believe that posterity will have a clearer insight, and will not only understand the work we are doing today, but will also ratify it as the right work and will exalt it accordingly.

On these principles we National Socialists base our standards of value in appraising a State. This value will be relative when viewed from the particular standpoint of the individual nation, but it will be absolute when considered from the standpoint of humanity as a whole. In other words, this means:
The quality of a State can never be judged by the level of its culture or the degree of importance which the outside world attaches to its power, but that its excellence must be judged by the degree to which its institutions serve the racial stock which belongs to it.
A State may be considered as a model example if it adequately serves not only the vital needs of the racial stock it represents but if it actually assures by its own existence the preservation of this same racial stock, no matter what general cultural significance this statal institution may have in the eyes of the rest of the world. For it is not the task of the State to create human capabilities, but only to assure free scope for the exercise of capabilities that already exist. Thus, conversely, a State may be called bad if, in spite of the existence of a high cultural level, it dooms to destruction the bearers of that culture by breaking up their racial uniformity. For the practical effect of such a policy would be to destroy those conditions that are indispensable for the ulterior existence of that culture, which the State did not create but which is the fruit of the creative power inherent in the racial stock whose existence is assured by being united in the living organism of the State. Once again let me emphasize the fact that the State itself is not the substance but the form. Therefore, the cultural level is not the standard by which we can judge the value of the State in which that people lives. It is evident that a people which is endowed with high creative powers in the cultural sphere is of more worth than a tribe of negroes. And yet the statal organization of the former, if judged from the standpoint of efficiency, may be worse than that of the negroes. Not even the best of States and statal institutions can evolve faculties from a people which they lack and which they never possessed, but a bad State may gradually destroy the faculties which once existed. This it can do by allowing or favouring the suppression of those who are the bearers of a racial culture.
Therefore, the worth of a State can be determined only by asking how far it actually succeeds in promoting the well-being of a definite race and not by the role which it plays in the world at large. Its relative worth can be estimated readily and accurately; but it is difficult to judge its absolute worth, because the latter is conditioned not only by the State but also by the quality and cultural level of the people that belong to the individual State in question.
Therefore, when we speak of the high mission of the State we must not forget that the high mission belongs to the people and that the business of the State is to use its organizing powers for the purpose of furnishing the necessary conditions which allow this people freely to unfold its creative faculties. And if we ask what kind of statal institution we Germans need, we must first have a clear notion as to the people which that State must embrace and what purpose it must serve.
Unfortunately the German national being is not based on a uniform racial type. The process of welding the original elements together has not gone so far as to warrant us in saying that a new race has emerged. On the contrary, the poison which has invaded the national body, especially since the Thirty Years' War, has destroyed the uniform constitution not only of our blood but also of our national soul. The open frontiers of our native country, the association with non-German foreign elements in the territories that lie all along those frontiers, and especially the strong influx of foreign blood into the interior of the Reich itself, has prevented any complete assimilation of those various elements, because the influx has continued steadily. Out of this melting-pot no new race arose. The heterogeneous elements continue to exist side by side. And the result is that, especially in times of crisis, when the herd usually flocks together, the Germans disperse in all directions. The fundamental racial elements are not only different in different districts, but there are also various elements in the single districts. Beside the Nordic type we find the East-European type, beside the Eastern there is the Dinaric, the Western type intermingling with both, and hybrids among them all. That is a grave drawback for us. Through it the Germans lack that strong herd instinct which arises from unity of blood and saves nations from ruin in dangerous and critical times; because on such occasions small differences disappear, so that a united herd faces the enemy. What we understand by the word hyper-individualism arises from the fact that our primordial racial elements have existed side by side without ever consolidating. During times of peace such a situation may offer some advantages, but, taken all in all, it has prevented us from gaining a mastery in the world. If in its historical development the German people had possessed the unity of herd instinct by which other peoples have so much benefited, then the German Reich would probably be mistress of the globe today. World history would have taken another course and in this case no man can tell if what many blinded pacifists hope to attain by petitioning, whining and crying, may not have been reached in this way: namely, a peace which would not be based upon the waving of olive branches and tearful misery-mongering of pacifist old women, but a peace that would be guaranteed by the triumphant sword of a people endowed with the power to master the world and administer it in the service of a higher civilization.
The fact that our people did not have a national being based on a unity of blood has been the source of untold misery for us. To many petty German potentates it gave residential capital cities, but the German people as a whole was deprived of its right to rulership.
Even today our nation still suffers from this lack of inner unity; but what has been the cause of our past and present misfortunes may turn out a blessing for us in the future. Though on the one hand it may be a drawback that our racial elements were not welded together, so that no homogeneous national body could develop, on the other hand, it was fortunate that, since at least a part of our best blood was thus kept pure, its racial quality was not debased.
A complete assimilation of all our racial elements would certainly have brought about a homogeneous national organism; but, as has been proved in the case of every racial mixture, it would have been less capable of creating a civilization than by keeping intact its best original elements. A benefit which results from the fact that there was no all-round assimilation is to be seen in that even now we have large groups of German Nordic people within our national organization, and that their blood has not been mixed with the blood of other races. We must look upon this as our most valuable treasure for the sake of the future. During that dark period of absolute ignorance in regard to all racial laws, when each individual was considered to be on a par with every other, there could be no clear appreciation of the difference between the various fundamental racial characteristics. We know today that a complete assimilation of all the various elements which constitute the national being might have resulted in giving us a larger share of external power: but, on the other hand, the highest of human aims would not have been attained, because the only kind of people which fate has obviously chosen to bring about this perfection would have been lost in such a general mixture of races which would constitute such a racial amalgamation.
But what has been prevented by a friendly Destiny, without any assistance on our part, must now be reconsidered and utilized in the light of our new knowledge.
He who talks of the German people as having a mission to fulfil on this earth must know that this cannot be fulfilled except by the building up of a State whose highest purpose is to preserve and promote those nobler elements of our race and of the whole of mankind which have remained unimpaired.
Thus for the first time a high inner purpose is accredited to the State. In face of the ridiculous phrase that the State should do no more than act as the guardian of public order and tranquillity, so that everybody can peacefully dupe everybody else, it is given a very high mission indeed to preserve and encourage the highest type of humanity which a beneficent Creator has bestowed on this earth. Out of a dead mechanism which claims to be an end in itself a living organism shall arise which has to serve one purpose exclusively: and that, indeed, a purpose which belongs to a higher order of ideas.
As a State the German Reich shall include all Germans. Its task is not only to gather in and foster the most valuable sections of our people but to lead them slowly and surely to a dominant position in the world.

Thus a period of stagnation is superseded by a period of effort. And here, as in every other sphere, the proverb holds good that to rest is to rust; and furthermore the proverb that victory will always be won by him who attacks. The higher the final goal which we strive to reach, and the less it be understood at the time by the broad masses, the more magnificent will be its success. That is what the lesson of history teaches. And the achievement will be all the more significant if the end is conceived in the right way and the fight carried through with unswerving persistence.
Many of the officials who direct the affairs of State nowadays may find it easier to work for the maintenance of the present order than to fight for a new one. They will find it more comfortable to look upon the State as a mechanism, whose purpose is its own preservation, and to say that their lives 'belong to the State' -- as if anything that grew from the inner life of the nation can logically serve anything but the national being, and as if man could be made for anything else than for his fellow beings. Naturally, it is easier, as I have said, to consider the authority of the State as nothing but the formal mechanism of an organization, rather than as the sovereign incarnation of a people's instinct for self-preservation on this earth. For these weak minds the State and the authority of the State is nothing but an aim in itself, while for us it is an effective weapon in the service of the great and eternal struggle for existence, a weapon which everyone must adopt, not because it is a mere formal mechanism, but because it is the main expression of our common will to exist.
Therefore, in the fight for our new idea, which conforms completely to the primal meaning of life, we shall find only a small number of comrades in a social order which has become decrepit not only physically but mentally also. From these strata of our population only a few exceptional people will join our ranks, only those few old people whose hearts have remained young and whose courage is still vigorous, but not those who consider it their duty to maintain the state of affairs that exists.
Against us we have the innumerable army of all those who are lazy-minded and indifferent rather than evil, and those whose self-interest leads them to uphold the present state of affairs. On the apparent hopelessness of our great struggle is based the magnitude of our task and the possibilities of success. A battle-cry which from the very start will scare off all the petty spirits, or at least discourage them, will become the signal for a rally of all those temperaments that are of the real fighting metal. And it must be clearly recognized that if a highly energetic and active body of men emerge from a nation and unite in the fight for one goal, thereby ultimately rising above the inert masses of the people, this small percentage will become masters of the whole. World history is made by minorities if these numerical minorities represent in themselves the will and energy and initiative of the people as a whole.
What seems an obstacle to many persons is really a preliminary condition of our victory. Just because our task is so great and because so many difficulties have to be overcome, the highest probability is that only the best kind of protagonists will join our ranks. This selection is the guarantee of our success.

Nature generally takes certain measures to correct the effect which racial mixture produces in life. She is not much in favour of the mongrel. The later products of cross-breeding have to suffer bitterly, especially the third, fourth and fifth generations. Not only are they deprived of the higher qualities that belonged to the parents who participated in the first mixture, but they also lack definite will-power and vigorous vital energies owing to the lack of harmony in the quality of their blood. At all critical moments in which a person of pure racial blood makes correct decisions, that is to say, decisions that are coherent and uniform, the person of mixed blood will become confused and take measures that are incoherent. Hence we see that a person of mixed blood is not only relatively inferior to a person of pure blood, but is also doomed to become extinct more rapidly. In innumerable cases wherein the pure race holds its ground the mongrel breaks down. Therein we witness the corrective provision which Nature adopts. She restricts the possibilities of procreation, thus impeding the fertility of cross-breeds and bringing them to extinction.
For instance, if an individual member of a race should mingle his blood with the member of a superior race the first result would be a lowering of the racial level, and furthermore the descendants of this cross-breeding would be weaker than those of the people around them who had maintained their blood unadulterated. Where no new blood from the superior race enters the racial stream of the mongrels, and where those mongrels continue to cross-breed among themselves, the latter will either die out because they have insufficient powers of resistance, which is Nature's wise provision, or in the course of many thousands of years they will form a new mongrel race in which the original elements will become so wholly mixed through this millennial crossing that traces of the original elements will be no longer recognizable. And thus a new people would be developed which possessed a certain resistance capacity of the herd type, but its intellectual value and its cultural significance would be essentially inferior to those which the first cross-breeds possessed. But even in this last case the mongrel product would succumb in the mutual struggle for existence with a higher racial group that had maintained its blood unmixed. The herd solidarity which this mongrel race had developed through thousands of years will not be equal to the struggle. And this is because it would lack elasticity and constructive capacity to prevail over a race of homogeneous blood that was mentally and culturally superior.
Therewith we may lay down the following principle as valid:
every racial mixture leads, of necessity, sooner or later to the downfall of the mongrel product, provided the higher racial strata of this cross-breed has not retained within itself some sort of racial homogeneity. The danger to the mongrels ceases only when this higher stratum, which has maintained certain standards of homogeneous breeding, ceases to be true to its pedigree and intermingles with the mongrels.
This principle is the source of a slow but constant regeneration whereby all the poison which has invaded the racial body is gradually eliminated so long as there still remains a fundamental stock of pure racial elements which resists further crossbreeding.
Such a process may set in automatically among those people where a strong racial instinct has remained. Among such people we may count those elements which, for some particular cause such as coercion, have been thrown out of the normal way of reproduction along strict racial lines. As soon as this compulsion ceases, that part of the race which has remained intact will tend to marry with its own kind and thus impede further intermingling. Then the mongrels recede quite naturally into the background unless their numbers had increased so much as to be able to withstand all serious resistance from those elements which had preserved the purity of their race.
When men have lost their natural instincts and ignore the obligations imposed on them by Nature, then there is no hope that Nature will correct the loss that has been caused, until recognition of the lost instincts has been restored. Then the task of bringing back what has been lost will have to be accomplished. But there is serious danger that those who have become blind once in this respect will continue more and more to break down racial barriers and finally lose the last remnants of what is best in them. What then remains is nothing but a uniform mish-mash, which seems to be the dream of our fine Utopians. But that mish-mash would soon banish all ideals from the world. Certainly a great herd could thus be formed. One can breed a herd of animals; but from a mixture of this kind men such as have created and founded civilizations would not be produced. The mission of humanity might then be considered at an end.
Those who do not wish that the earth should fall into such a condition must realize that it is the task of the German State in particular to see to it that the process of bastardization is brought to a stop.
Our contemporary generation of weaklings will naturally decry such a policy and whine and complain about it as an encroachment on the most sacred of human rights. But there is only one right that is sacrosanct and this right is at the same time a most sacred duty. This right and obligation are: that the purity of the racial blood should be guarded, so that the best types of human beings may be preserved and that thus we should render possible a more noble development of humanity itself.
A folk-State should in the first place raise matrimony from the level of being a constant scandal to the race. The State should consecrate it as an institution which is called upon to produce creatures made in the likeness of the Lord and not create monsters that are a mixture of man and ape. The protest which is put forward in the name of humanity does not fit the mouth of a generation that makes it possible for the most depraved degenerates to propagate themselves, thereby imposing unspeakable suffering on their own products and their contemporaries, while on the other hand contraceptives are permitted and sold in every drug store and even by street hawkers, so that babies should not be born even among the healthiest of our people. In this present State of ours, whose function it is to be the guardian of peace and good order, our national bourgeoisie look upon it as a crime to make procreation impossible for syphilitics and those who suffer from tuberculosis or other hereditary diseases, also cripples and imbeciles. But the practical prevention of procreation among millions of our very best people is not considered as an evil, nor does it offend against the noble morality of this social class but rather encourages their short-sightedness and mental lethargy. For otherwise they would at least stir their brains to find an answer to the question of how to create conditions for the feeding and maintaining of those future beings who will be the healthy representatives of our nation and must also provide the conditions on which the generation that is to follow them will have to support itself and live.
How devoid of ideals and how ignoble is the whole contemporary system! The fact that the churches join in committing this sin against the image of God, even though they continue to emphasize the dignity of that image, is quite in keeping with their present activities. They talk about the Spirit, but they allow man, as the embodiment of the Spirit, to degenerate to the proletarian level. Then they look on with amazement when they realize how small is the influence of the Christian Faith in their own country and how depraved and ungodly is this riff-raff which is physically degenerate and therefore morally degenerate also. To balance this state of affairs they try to convert the Hottentots and the Zulus and the Kaffirs and to bestow on them the blessings of the Church. While our European people, God be praised and thanked, are left to become the victims of moral depravity, the pious missionary goes out to Central Africa and establishes missionary stations for negroes. Finally, sound and healthy V though primitive and backward V people will be transformed, under the name of our 'higher civilization', into a motley of lazy and brutalized mongrels.
It would better accord with noble human aspirations if our two Christian denominations would cease to bother the negroes with their preaching, which the negroes neither desire nor understand. It would be better if they left this work alone, and if, in its stead, they tried to teach people in Europe, kindly and seriously, that it is much more pleasing to God if a couple that is not of healthy stock were to show loving kindness to some poor orphan and become a father and mother to him, rather than give life to a sickly child that will be a cause of suffering and unhappiness to all.
In this field the People's State will have to repair the damage that arises from the fact that the problem is at present neglected by all the various parties concerned. It will be the task of the People's State to make the race the centre of the life of the community. It must make sure that the purity of the racial strain will be preserved. It must proclaim the truth that the child is the most valuable possession a people can have. It must see to it that only those who are healthy shall beget children; that there is only one infamy, namely, for parents that are ill or show hereditary defects to bring children into the world and that in such cases it is a high honour to refrain from doing so. But, on the other hand, it must be considered as reprehensible conduct to refrain from giving healthy children to the nation. In this matter the State must assert itself as the trustee of a millennial future, in face of which the egotistic desires of the individual count for nothing and will have to give way before the ruling of the State. In order to fulfil this duty in a practical manner the State will have to avail itself of modern medical discoveries. It must proclaim as unfit for procreation all those who are inflicted with some visible hereditary disease or are the carriers of it; and practical measures must be adopted to have such people rendered sterile. On the other hand, provision must be made for the normally fertile woman so that she will not be restricted in child-bearing through the financial and economic system operating in a political regime that looks upon the blessing of having children as a curse to their parents. The State will have to abolish the cowardly and even criminal indifference with which the problem of social amenities for large families is treated, and it will have to be the supreme protector of this greatest blessing that a people can boast of. Its attention and care must be directed towards the child rather than the adult.
Those who are physically and mentally unhealthy and unfit must not perpetuate their own suffering in the bodies of their children. From the educational point of view there is here a huge task for the People's State to accomplish. But in a future era this work will appear greater and more significant than the victorious wars of our present bourgeois epoch. Through educational means the State must teach individuals that illness is not a disgrace but an unfortunate accident which has to be pitied, yet that it is a crime and a disgrace to make this affliction all the worse by passing on disease and defects to innocent creatures out of mere egotism. And the State must also teach the people that it is an expression of a really noble nature and that it is a humanitarian act worthy of admiration if a person who innocently suffers from hereditary disease refrains from having a child of his own but gives his love and affection to some unknown child who, through its health, promises to become a robust member of a healthy community. In accomplishing such an educational task the State integrates its function by this activity in the moral sphere. It must act on this principle without paying any attention to the question of whether its conduct will be understood or misconstrued, blamed or praised.
If for a period of only 600 years those individuals would be sterilized who are physically degenerate or mentally diseased, humanity would not only be delivered from an immense misfortune but also restored to a state of general health such as we at present can hardly imagine. If the fecundity of the healthy portion of the nation should be made a practical matter in a conscientious and methodical way, we should have at least the beginnings of a race from which all those germs would be eliminated which are today the cause of our moral and physical decadence. If a people and a State take this course to develop that nucleus of the nation which is most valuable from the racial standpoint and thus increase its fecundity, the people as a whole will subsequently enjoy that most precious of gifts which consists in a racial quality fashioned on truly noble lines.
To achieve this the State should first of all not leave the colonization of newly acquired territory to a haphazard policy but should have it carried out under the guidance of definite principles. Specially competent committees ought to issue certificates to individuals entitling them to engage in colonization work, and these certificates should guarantee the racial purity of the individuals in question. In this way frontier colonies could gradually be founded whose inhabitants would be of the purest racial stock, and hence would possess the best qualities of the race. Such colonies would be a valuable asset to the whole nation. Their development would be a source of joy and confidence and pride to each citizen of the nation, because they would contain the pure germ which would ultimately bring about a great development of the nation and indeed of mankind itself.
The folkish philosophy of life which bases the State on the racial idea must finally succeed in bringing about a nobler era, in which men will no longer pay exclusive attention to breeding and rearing pedigree dogs and horses and cats, but will endeavour to improve the breed of the human race itself. That will be an era of silence and renunciation for one class of people, while the others will give their gifts and make their sacrifices joyfully.
That such a mentality may be possible cannot be denied in a world where hundreds and thousands accept the principle of celibacy from their own choice, without being obliged or pledged to do so by anything except an ecclesiastical precept. Why should it not be possible to induce people to make this sacrifice if, instead of such a precept, they were simply told that they ought to put an end to this truly original sin of racial corruption which is steadily being passed on from one generation to another. And, further, they ought to be brought to realize that it is their bounden duty to give to the Almighty Creator beings such as He himself made to His own image.
Naturally, our wretched army of contemporary philistines will not understand these things. They will ridicule them or shrug their round shoulders and groan out their everlasting excuses: "Of course it is a fine thing, but the pity is that it cannot be carried out." And we reply: "With you indeed it cannot be done, for your world is incapable of such an idea. You know only one anxiety and that is for your own personal existence. You have one God, and that is your money. We do not turn to you, however, for help, but to the great army of those who are too poor to consider their personal existence as the highest good on earth. They do not place their trust in money but in other gods, into whose hands they confide their lives. Above all we turn to the vast army of our German youth. They are coming to maturity in a great epoch, and they will fight against the evils which were due to the laziness and indifference of their fathers." Either the German youth will one day create a new State founded on the racial idea or they will be the last witnesses of the complete breakdown and death of the bourgeois world.
For if a generation suffers from defects which it recognizes and even admits and is nevertheless quite pleased with itself, as the bourgeois world is today, resorting to the cheap excuse that nothing can be done to remedy the situation, then such a generation is doomed to disaster. A marked characteristic of our bourgeois world is that they no longer can deny the evil conditions that exist. They have to admit that there is much which is foul and wrong; but they are not able to make up their minds to fight against that evil, which would mean putting forth the energy to mobilize the forces of 60 or 70 million people and thus oppose this menace. They do just the opposite. When such an effort is made elsewhere they only indulge in silly comment and try from a safe distance to show that such an enterprise is theoretically impossible and doomed to failure. No arguments are too stupid to be employed in the service of their own pettifogging opinions and their knavish moral attitude. If, for instance, a whole continent wages war against alcoholic intoxication, so as to free a whole people from this devastating vice, our bourgeois European does not know better than to look sideways stupidly, shake the head in doubt and ridicule the movement with a superior sneer V a state of mind which is effective in a society that is so ridiculous. But when all these stupidities miss their aim and in that part of the world this sublime and intangible attitude is treated effectively and success attends the movement, then such success is called into question or its importance minimized. Even moral principles are used in this slanderous campaign against a movement which aims at suppressing a great source of immorality.
No. We must not permit ourselves to be deceived by any illusions on this point. Our contemporary bourgeois world has become useless for any such noble human task because it has lost all high quality and is evil, not so much - as I think - because evil is wished but rather because these people are too indolent to rise up against it. That is why those political societies which call themselves 'bourgeois parties' are nothing but associations to promote the interests of certain professional groups and classes. Their highest aim is to defend their own egoistic interests as best they can. It is obvious that such a guild, consisting of bourgeois politicians, may be considered fit for anything rather than a struggle, especially when the adversaries are not cautious shopkeepers but the proletarian masses, goaded on to extremities and determined not to hesitate before deeds of violence.
If we consider it the first duty of the State to serve and promote the general welfare of the people, by preserving and encouraging the development of the best racial elements, the logical consequence is that this task cannot be limited to measures concerning the birth of the infant members of the race and nation but that the State will also have to adopt educational means for making each citizen a worthy factor in the further propagation of the racial stock.
Just as, in general, the racial quality is the preliminary condition for the mental efficiency of any given human material, the training of the individual will first of all have to be directed towards the development of sound bodily health. For the general rule is that a strong and healthy mind is found only in a strong and healthy body. The fact that men of genius are sometimes not robust in health and stature, or even of a sickly constitution, is no proof against the principle I have enunciated. These cases are only exceptions which, as everywhere else, prove the rule. But when the bulk of a nation is composed of physical degenerates it is rare for a great spirit to arise from such a miserable motley. And in any case his activities would never meet with great success. A degenerate mob will either be incapable of understanding him at all or their will-power is so feeble that they cannot follow the soaring of such an eagle.
The State that is grounded on the racial principle and is alive to the significance of this truth will first of all have to base its educational work not on the mere imparting of knowledge but rather on physical training and development of healthy bodies. The cultivation of the intellectual facilities comes only in the second place. And here again it is character which has to be developed first of all, strength of will and decision. And the educational system ought to foster the spirit of readiness to accept responsibilities gladly. Formal instruction in the sciences must be considered last in importance. Accordingly the State which is grounded on the racial idea must start with the principle that a person whose formal education in the sciences is relatively small but who is physically sound and robust, of a steadfast and honest character, ready and able to make decisions and endowed with strength of will, is a more useful member of the national community than a weakling who is scholarly and refined. A nation composed of learned men who are physical weaklings, hesitant about decisions of the will, and timid pacifists, is not capable of assuring even its own existence on this earth. In the bitter struggle which decides the destiny of man it is very rare that an individual has succumbed because he lacked learning. Those who fail are they who try to ignore these consequences and are too faint-hearted about putting them into effect. There must be a certain balance between mind and body. An ill-kept body is not made a more beautiful sight by the indwelling of a radiant spirit. We should not be acting justly if we were to bestow the highest intellectual training on those who are physically deformed and crippled, who lack decision and are weak-willed and cowardly. What has made the Greek ideal of beauty immortal is the wonderful union of a splendid physical beauty with nobility of mind and spirit.
Moltke's saying, that in the long run fortune favours only the efficient, is certainly valid for the relationship between body and spirit. A mind which is sound will generally maintain its dwelling in a body that is sound.
Accordingly, in the People's State physical training is not a matter for the individual alone. Nor is it a duty which first devolves on the parents and only secondly or thirdly a public interest; but it is necessary for the preservation of the people, who are represented and protected by the State. As regards purely formal education the State even now interferes with the individual's right of self-determination and insists upon the right of the community by submitting the child to an obligatory system of training, without paying attention to the approval or disapproval of the parents. In a similar way and to a higher degree the new People's State will one day make its authority prevail over the ignorance and incomprehension of individuals in problems appertaining to the safety of the nation. It must organize its educational work in such a way that the bodies of the young will be systematically trained from infancy onwards, so as to be tempered and hardened for the demands to be made on them in later years. Above all, the State must see to it that a generation of stay-at-homes is not developed.
The work of education and hygiene has to begin with the young mother. The painstaking efforts carried on for several decades have succeeded in abolishing septic infection at childbirth and reducing puerperal fever to a relatively small number of cases. And so it ought to be possible by means of instructing sisters and mothers in an opportune way, to institute a system of training the child from early infancy onwards so that this may serve as an excellent basis for future development.
The People's State ought to allow much more time for physical training in the school. It is nonsense to burden young brains with a load of material of which, as experience shows, they retain only a small part, and mostly not the essentials, but only the secondary and useless portion; because the young mind is incapable of sifting the right kind of learning out of all the stuff that is pumped into it. To-day, even in the curriculum of the high schools, only two short hours in the week are reserved for gymnastics; and worse still, it is left to the pupils to decide whether or not they want to take part. This shows a grave disproportion between this branch of education and purely intellectual instruction. Not a single day should be allowed to pass in which the young pupil does not have one hour of physical training in the morning and one in the evening; and every kind of sport and gymnastics should be included. There is one kind of sport which should be specially encouraged, although many people who call themselves volkisch consider it brutal and vulgar, and that is boxing. It is incredible how many false notions prevail among the 'cultivated' classes. The fact that the young man learns how to fence and then spends his time in duels is considered quite natural and respectable. But boxing V that is brutal. Why? There is no other sport which equals this in developing the militant spirit, none that demands such a power of rapid decision or which gives the body the flexibility of good steel. It is no more vulgar when two young people settle their differences with their fists than with sharp-pointed pieces of steel. One who is attacked and defends himself with his fists surely does not act less manly than one who runs off and yells for the assistance of a policeman. But, above all, a healthy youth has to learn to endure hard knocks. This principle may appear savage to our contemporary champions who fight only with the weapons of the intellect. But it is not the purpose of the People's State to educate a colony of asthetic pacifists and physical degenerates. This State does not consider that the human ideal is to be found in the honourable philistine or the maidenly spinster, but in a dareful personification of manly force and in women capable of bringing men into the world.
Generally speaking, the function of sport is not only to make the individual strong, alert and daring, but also to harden the body and train it to endure an adverse environment.
If our superior class had not received such a distinguished education, and if, on the contrary, they had learned boxing, it would never have been possible for bullies and deserters and other such canaille to carry through a German revolution. For the success of this revolution was not due to the courageous, energetic and audacious activities of its authors but to the lamentable cowardice and irresolution of those who ruled the German State at that time and were responsible for it. But our educated leaders had received only an 'intellectual' training and thus found themselves defenceless when their adversaries used iron bars instead of intellectual weapons. All this could happen only because our superior scholastic system did not train men to be real men but merely to be civil servants, engineers, technicians, chemists, litterateurs, jurists and, finally, professors; so that intellectualism should not die out.
Our leadership in the purely intellectual sphere has always been brilliant, but as regards will-power in practical affairs our leadership has been beneath criticism.
Of course education cannot make a courageous man out of one who is temperamentally a coward. But a man who naturally possesses a certain degree of courage will not be able to develop that quality if his defective education has made him inferior to others from the very start as regards physical strength and prowess. The army offers the best example of the fact that the knowledge of one's physical ability develops a man's courage and militant spirit. Outstanding heroes are not the rule in the army, but the average represents men of high courage. The excellent schooling which the German soldiers received before the War imbued the members of the whole gigantic organism with a degree of confidence in their own superiority such as even our opponents never thought possible. All the immortal examples of dauntless courage and daring which the German armies gave during the late summer and autumn of 1914, as they advanced from triumph to triumph, were the result of that education which had been pursued systematically. During those long years of peace before the last War men who were almost physical weaklings were made capable of incredible deeds, and thus a self-confidence was developed which did not fail even in the most terrible battles.
It is our German people, which broke down and were delivered over to be kicked by the rest of the world, that had need of the power that comes by suggestion from self-confidence. But this confidence in one's self must be instilled into our children from their very early years. The whole system of education and training must be directed towards fostering in the child the conviction that he is unquestionably a match for any- and everybody. The individual has to regain his own physical strength and prowess in order to believe in the invincibility of the nation to which he belongs. What has formerly led the German armies to victory was the sum total of the confidence which each individual had in himself, and which all of them had in those who held the positions of command. What will restore the national strength of the German people is the conviction that they will be able to reconquer their liberty. But this conviction can only be the final product of an equal feeling in the millions of individuals. And here again we must have no illusions.
The collapse of our people was overwhelming, and the efforts to put an end to so much misery must also be overwhelming. It would be a bitter and grave error to believe that our people could be made strong again simply by means of our present bourgeois training in good order and obedience. That will not suffice if we are to break up the present order of things, which now sanctions the acknowledgment of our defeat and cast the broken chains of our slavery in the face of our opponents. Only by a superabundance of national energy and a passionate thirst for liberty can we recover what has been lost.
Also the manner of clothing the young should be such as harmonizes with this purpose. It is really lamentable to see how our young people have fallen victims to a fashion mania which perverts the meaning of the old adage that clothes make the man.
Especially in regard to young people clothes should take their place in the service of education. The boy who walks about in summer-time wearing long baggy trousers and clad up to the neck is hampered even by his clothes in feeling any inclination towards strenuous physical exercise. Ambition and, to speak quite frankly, even vanity must be appealed to. I do not mean such vanity as leads people to want to wear fine clothes, which not everybody can afford, but rather the vanity which inclines a person towards developing a fine bodily physique. And this is something which everybody can help to do.
This will come in useful also for later years. The young girl must become acquainted with her sweetheart. If the beauty of the body were not completely forced into the background today through our stupid manner of dressing, it would not be possible for thousands of our girls to be led astray by Jewish mongrels, with their repulsive crooked waddle. It is also in the interests of the nation that those who have a beautiful physique should be brought into the foreground, so that they might encourage the development of a beautiful bodily form among the people in general.
Military training is excluded among us today, and therewith the only institution which in peace-times at least partly made up for the lack of physical training in our education. Therefore what I have suggested is all the more necessary in our time. The success of our old military training not only showed itself in the education of the individual but also in the influence which it exercised over the mutual relationship between the sexes. The young girl preferred the soldier to one who was not a soldier. The People's State must not confine its control of physical training to the official school period, but it must demand that, after leaving school and while the adolescent body is still developing, the boy continues this training. For on such proper physical development success in after-life largely depends. It is stupid to think that the right of the State to supervise the education of its young citizens suddenly comes to an end the moment they leave school and recommences only with military service. This right is a duty, and as such it must continue uninterruptedly. The present State, which does not interest itself in developing healthy men, has criminally neglected this duty. It leaves our contemporary youth to be corrupted on the streets and in the brothels, instead of keeping hold of the reins and continuing the physical training of these youths up to the time when they are grown into healthy young men and women.
For the present it is a matter of indifference what form the State chooses for carrying on this training. The essential matter is that it should be developed and that the most suitable ways of doing so should be investigated. The People's State will have to consider the physical training of the youth after the school period just as much a public duty as their intellectual training; and this training will have to be carried out through public institutions. Its general lines can be a preparation for subsequent service in the army. And then it will no longer be the task of the army to teach the young recruit the most elementary drill regulations. In fact the army will no longer have to deal with recruits in the present sense of the word, but it will rather have to transform into a soldier the youth whose bodily prowess has been already fully trained.
In the People's State the army will no longer be obliged to teach boys how to walk and stand erect, but it will be the final and supreme school of patriotic education. In the army the young recruit will learn the art of bearing arms, but at the same time he will be equipped for his other duties in later life. And the supreme aim of military education must always be to achieve that which was attributed to the old army as its highest merit: namely, that through his military schooling the boy must be transformed into a man, that he must not only learn to obey but also acquire the fundamentals that will enable him one day to command. He must learn to remain silent not only when he is rightly rebuked but also when he is wrongly rebuked.
Furthermore, on the self-consciousness of his own strength and on the basis of that esprit de corps which inspires him and his comrades, he must become convinced that he belongs to a people who are invincible.
After he has completed his military training two certificates shall be handed to the soldier. The one will be his diploma as a citizen of the State, a juridical document which will enable him to take part in public affairs. The second will be an attestation of his physical health, which guarantees his fitness for marriage.
The People's State will have to direct the education of girls just as that of boys and according to the same fundamental principles. Here again special importance must be given to physical training, and only after that must the importance of spiritual and mental training be taken into account. In the education of the girl the final goal always to be kept in mind is that she is one day to be a mother.
It is only in the second place that the People's State must busy itself with the training of character, using all the means adapted to that purpose.
Of course the essential traits of the individual character are already there fundamentally before any education takes place. A person who is fundamentally egoistic will always remain fundamentally egoistic, and the idealist will always remain fundamentally an idealist. Besides those, however, who already possess a definite stamp of character there are millions of people with characters that are indefinite and vague. The born delinquent will always remain a delinquent, but numerous people who show only a certain tendency to commit criminal acts may become useful members of the community if rightly trained; whereas, on the other hand, weak and unstable characters may easily become evil elements if the system of education has been bad.
During the War it was often lamented that our people could be so little reticent. This failing made it very difficult to keep even highly important secrets from the knowledge of the enemy. But let us ask this question: What did the German educational system do in pre-War times to teach the Germans to be discreet? Did it not very often happen in schooldays that the little tell-tale was preferred to his companions who kept their mouths shut? Is it not true that then, as well as now, complaining about others was considered praiseworthy 'candour', while silent discretion was taken as obstinacy? Has any attempt ever been made to teach that discretion is a precious and manly virtue? No, for such matters are trifles in the eyes of our educators. But these trifles cost our State innumerable millions in legal expenses; for 90 per cent of all the processes for defamation and such like charges arise only from a lack of discretion. Remarks that are made without any sense of responsibility are thoughtlessly repeated from mouth to mouth; and our economic welfare is continually damaged because important methods of production are thus disclosed. Secret preparations for our national defence are rendered illusory because our people have never learned the duty of silence. They repeat everything they happen to hear. In times of war such talkative habits may even cause the loss of battles and therefore may contribute essentially to the unsuccessful outcome of a campaign. Here, as in other matters, we may rest assured that adults cannot do what they have not learnt to do in youth. A teacher must not try to discover the wild tricks of the boys by encouraging the evil practice of tale-bearing. Young people form a sort of State among themselves and face adults with a certain solidarity. That is quite natural. The ties which unite the ten-year boys to one another are stronger and more natural than their relationship to adults. A boy who tells on his comrades commits an act of treason and shows a bent of character which is, to speak bluntly, similar to that of a man who commits high treason. Such a boy must not be classed as 'good', 'reliable', and so on, but rather as one with undesirable traits of character. It may be rather convenient for the teacher to make use of such unworthy tendencies in order to help his own work, but by such an attitude the germ of a moral habit is sown in young hearts and may one day show fatal consequences. It has happened more often than once that a young informer developed into a big scoundrel.
This is only one example among many. The deliberate training of fine and noble traits of character in our schools today is almost negative. In the future much more emphasis will have to be laid on this side of our educational work. Loyalty, self-sacrifice and discretion are virtues which a great nation must possess. And the teaching and development of these in the school is a more important matter than many others things now included in the curriculum. To make the children give up habits of complaining and whining and howling when they are hurt, etc., also belongs to this part of their training. If the educational system fails to teach the child at an early age to endure pain and injury without complaining we cannot be surprised if at a later age, when the boy has grown to be the man and is, for example, in the trenches, the postal service is used for nothing else than to send home letters of weeping and complaint. If our youths, during their years in the primary schools, had had their minds crammed with a little less knowledge, and if instead they had been better taught how to be masters of themselves, it would have served us well during the years 1914V1918.
In its educational system the People's State will have to attach the highest importance to the development of character, hand-in-hand with physical training. Many more defects which our national organism shows at present could be at least ameliorated, if not completely eliminated, by education of the right kind.
Extreme importance should be attached to the training of will-power and the habit of making firm decisions, also the habit of being always ready to accept responsibilities.
In the training of our old army the principle was in vogue that any order is always better than no order. Applied to our youth this principle ought to take the form that any answer is better than no answer. The fear of replying, because one fears to be wrong, ought to be considered more humiliating than giving the wrong reply. On this simple and primitive basis our youth should be trained to have the courage to act.
It has been often lamented that in November and December 1918 all the authorities lost their heads and that, from the monarch down to the last divisional commander, nobody had sufficient mettle to make a decision on his own responsibility. That terrible fact constitutes a grave rebuke to our educational system; because what was then revealed on a colossal scale at that moment of catastrophe was only what happens on a smaller scale everywhere among us. It is the lack of will-power, and not the lack of arms, which renders us incapable of offering any serious resistance today. This defect is found everywhere among our people and prevents decisive action wherever risks have to be taken, as if any great action can be taken without also taking the risk. Quite unsuspectingly, a German General found a formula for this lamentable lack of the will-to-act when he said: "I act only when I can count on a 51 per cent probability of success." In that '51 per cent probability' we find the very root of the German collapse. The man who demands from Fate a guarantee of his success deliberately denies the significance of an heroic act. For this significance consists in the very fact that, in the definite knowledge that the situation in question is fraught with mortal danger, an action is undertaken which may lead to success. A patient suffering from cancer and who knows that his death is certain if he does not undergo an operation, needs no 51 per cent probability of a cure before facing the operation. And if the operation promises only half of one per cent probability of success a man of courage will risk it and would not whine if it turned out unsuccessful.
All in all, the cowardly lack of will-power and the incapacity for making decisions are chiefly results of the erroneous education given us in our youth. The disastrous effects of this are now widespread among us. The crowning examples of that tragic chain of consequences are shown in the lack of civil courage which our leading statesmen display.
The cowardice which leads nowadays to the shirking of every kind of responsibility springs from the same roots. Here again it is the fault of the education given our young people. This drawback permeates all sections of public life and finds its immortal consummation in the institutions of government that function under the parliamentary regime.
Already in the school, unfortunately, more value is placed on 'confession and full repentance' and 'contrite renouncement', on the part of little sinners, than on a simple and frank avowal. But this latter seems today, in the eyes of many an educator, to savour of a spirit of utter incorrigibility and depravation. And, though it may seem incredible, many a boy is told that the gallows tree is waiting for him because he has shown certain traits which might be of inestimable value in the nation as a whole.
Just as the People's State must one day give its attention to training the will-power and capacity for decision among the youth, so too it must inculcate in the hearts of the young generation from early childhood onwards a readiness to accept responsibilities, and the courage of open and frank avowal. If it recognizes the full significance of this necessity, finally V after a century of educative work V it will succeed in building up a nation which will no longer be subject to those defeats that have contributed so disastrously to bring about our present overthrow.
The formal imparting of knowledge, which constitutes the chief work of our educational system today, will be taken over by the People's State with only few modifications. These modifications must be made in three branches.
First of all, the brains of the young people must not generally be burdened with subjects of which ninety-five per cent are useless to them and are therefore forgotten again. The curriculum of the primary and secondary schools presents an odd mixture at the present time. In many branches of study the subject matter to be learned has become so enormous that only a very small fraction of it can be remembered later on, and indeed only a very small fraction of this whole mass of knowledge can be used. On the other hand, what is learned is insufficient for anybody who wishes to specialize in any certain branch for the purpose of earning his daily bread. Take, for example, the average civil servant who has passed through the Gymnasium or High School, and ask him at the age of thirty or forty how much he has retained of the knowledge that was crammed into him with so much pains.
How much is retained from all that was stuffed into his brain? He will certainly answer: "Well, if a mass of stuff was then taught, it was not for the sole purpose of supplying the student with a great stock of knowledge from which he could draw in later years, but it served to develop the understanding, the memory, and above all it helped to strengthen the thinking powers of the brain." That is partly true. And yet it is somewhat dangerous to submerge a young brain in a flood of impressions which it can hardly master and the single elements of which it cannot discern or appreciate at their just value. It is mostly the essential part of this knowledge, and not the accidental, that is forgotten and sacrificed. Thus the principal purpose of this copious instruction is frustrated, for that purpose cannot be to make the brain capable of learning by simply offering it an enormous and varied amount of subjects for acquisition, but rather to furnish the individual with that stock of knowledge which he will need in later life and which he can use for the good of the community. This aim, however, is rendered illusory if, because of the superabundance of subjects that have been crammed into his head in childhood, a person is able to remember nothing, or at least not the essential portion, of all this in later life. There is no reason why millions of people should learn two or three languages during the school years, when only a very small fraction will have the opportunity to use these languages in later life and when most of them will therefore forget those languages completely. To take an instance: Out of 100,000 students who learn French there are probably not 2,000 who will be in a position to make use of this accomplishment in later life, while 98,000 will never have a chance to utilize in practice what they have learned in youth. They have spent thousands of hours on a subject which will afterwards be without any value or importance to them. The argument that these matters form part of the general process of educating the mind is invalid. It would be sound if all these people were able to use this learning in after life. But, as the situation stands, 98,000 are tortured to no purpose and waste their valuable time, only for the sake of the 2,000 to whom the language will be of any use.
In the case of that language which I have chosen as an example it cannot be said that the learning of it educates the student in logical thinking or sharpens his mental acumen, as the learning of Latin, for instance, might be said to do. It would therefore be much better to teach young students only the general outline, or, better, the inner structure of such a language: that is to say, to allow them to discern the characteristic features of the language, or perhaps to make them acquainted with the rudiments of its grammar, its pronunciation, its syntax, style, etc. That would be sufficient for average students, because it would provide a clearer view of the whole and could be more easily remembered. And it would be more practical than the present-day attempt to cram into their heads a detailed knowledge of the whole language, which they can never master and which they will readily forget. If this method were adopted, then we should avoid the danger that, out of the superabundance of matter taught, only some fragments will remain in the memory; for the youth would then have to learn what is worth while, and the selection between the useful and the useless would thus have been made beforehand.
As regards the majority of students the knowledge and understanding of the rudiments of a language would be quite sufficient for the rest of their lives. And those who really do need this language subsequently would thus have a foundation on which to start, should they choose to make a more thorough study of it.
By adopting such a curriculum the necessary amount of time would be gained for physical exercises as well as for a more intense training in the various educational fields that have already been mentioned.
A reform of particular importance is that which ought to take place in the present methods of teaching history. Scarcely any other people are made to study as much of history as the Germans, and scarcely any other people make such a bad use of their historical knowledge. If politics means history in the making, then our way of teaching history stands condemned by the way we have conducted our politics. But there would be no point in bewailing the lamentable results of our political conduct unless one is now determined to give our people a better political education. In 99 out of 100 cases the results of our present teaching of history are deplorable. Usually only a few dates, years of birth and names, remain in the memory, while a knowledge of the main and clearly defined lines of historical development is completely lacking. The essential features which are of real significance are not taught. It is left to the more or less bright intelligence of the individual to discover the inner motivating urge amid the mass of dates and chronological succession of events.
You may object as strongly as you like to this unpleasant statement. But read with attention the speeches which our parliamentarians make during one session alone on political problems and on questions of foreign policy in particular. Remember that those gentlemen are, or claim to be, the elite of the German nation and that at least a great number of them have sat on the benches of our secondary schools and that many of them have passed through our universities. Then you will realize how defective the historical education of these people has been. If these gentlemen had never studied history at all but had possessed a sound instinct for public affairs, things would have gone better, and the nation would have benefited greatly thereby.
The subject matter of our historical teaching must be curtailed. The chief value of that teaching is to make the principal lines of historical development understood. The more our historical teaching is limited to this task, the more we may hope that it will turn out subsequently to be of advantage to the individual and, through the individual, to the community as a whole. For history must not be studied merely with a view to knowing what happened in the past but as a guide for the future, and to teach us what policy would be the best to follow for the preservation of our own people. That is the real end; and the teaching of history is only a means to attain this end. But here again the means has superseded the end in our contemporary education. The goal is completely forgotten. Do not reply that a profound study of history demands a detailed knowledge of all these dates because otherwise we could not fix the great lines of development. That task belongs to the professional historians. But the average man is not a professor of history. For him history has only one mission and that is to provide him with such an amount of historical knowledge as is necessary in order to enable him to form an independent opinion on the political affairs of his own country. The man who wants to become a professor of history can devote himself to all the details later on. Naturally he will have to occupy himself even with the smallest details. Of course our present teaching of history is not adequate to all this. Its scope is too vast for the average student and too limited for the student who wishes to be an historical expert.
Finally, it is the business of the People's State to arrange for the writing of a world history in which the race problem will occupy a dominant position.
To sum up: The People's State must reconstruct our system of general instruction in such a way that it will embrace only what is essential. Beyond this it will have to make provision for a more advanced teaching in the various subjects for those who want to specialize in them. It will suffice for the average individual to be acquainted with the fundamentals of the various subjects to serve as the basis of what may be called an all-round education. He ought to study exhaustively and in detail only that subject in which he intends to work during the rest of his life. A general instruction in all subjects should be obligatory, and specialization should be left to the choice of the individual.
In this way the scholastic programme would be shortened, and thus several school hours would be gained which could be utilized for physical training and character training, in will-power, the capacity for making practical judgments, decisions, etc.
The little account taken by our school training today, especially in the secondary schools, of the callings that have to be followed in after life is demonstrated by the fact that men who are destined for the same calling in life are educated in three different kinds of schools. What is of decisive importance is general education only and not the special teaching. When special knowledge is needed it cannot be given in the curriculum of our secondary schools as they stand today.
Therefore the People's State will one day have to abolish such half-measures.
The second modification in the curriculum which the People's State will have to make is the following:
It is a characteristic of our materialistic epoch that our scientific education shows a growing emphasis on what is real and practical: such subjects, for instance, as applied mathematics, physics, chemistry, etc. Of course they are necessary in an age that is dominated by industrial technology and chemistry, and where everyday life shows at least the external manifestations of these. But it is a perilous thing to base the general culture of a nation on the knowledge of these subjects. On the contrary, that general culture ought always to be directed towards ideals. It ought to be founded on the humanist disciplines and should aim at giving only the ground work of further specialized instruction in the various practical sciences. Otherwise we should sacrifice those forces that are more important for the preservation of the nation than any technical knowledge. In the historical department the study of ancient history should not be omitted. Roman history, along general lines, is and will remain the best teacher, not only for our own time but also for the future. And the ideal of Hellenic culture should be preserved for us in all its marvellous beauty. The differences between the various peoples should not prevent us from recognizing the community of race which unites them on a higher plane. The conflict of our times is one that is being waged around great objectives. A civilization is fighting for its existence. It is a civilization that is the product of thousands of years of historical development, and the Greek as well as the German forms part of it.
A clear-cut division must be made between general culture and the special branches. To-day the latter threaten more and more to devote themselves exclusively to the service of Mammon. To counterbalance this tendency, general culture should be preserved, at least in its ideal forms. The principle should be repeatedly emphasized, that industrial and technical progress, trade and commerce, can flourish only so long as a folk community exists whose general system of thought is inspired by ideals, since that is the preliminary condition for a flourishing development of the enterprises I have spoken of. That condition is not created by a spirit of materialist egotism but by a spirit of self-denial and the joy of giving one's self in the service of others.
The system of education which prevails today sees its principal object in pumping into young people that knowledge which will help them to make their way in life. This principle is expressed in the following terms: "The young man must one day become a useful member of human society." By that phrase they mean the ability to gain an honest daily livelihood. The superficial training in the duties of good citizenship, which he acquires merely as an accidental thing, has very weak foundations. For in itself the State represents only a form, and therefore it is difficult to train people to look upon this form as the ideal which they will have to serve and towards which they must feel responsible. A form can be too easily broken. But, as we have seen, the idea which people have of the State today does not represent anything clearly defined. Therefore, there is nothing but the usual stereotyped 'patriotic' training. In the old Germany the greatest emphasis was placed on the divine right of the small and even the smallest potentates. The way in which this divine right was formulated and presented was never very clever and often very stupid. Because of the large numbers of those small potentates, it was impossible to give adequate biographical accounts of the really great personalities that shed their lustre on the history of the German people. The result was that the broad masses received a very inadequate knowledge of German history. Here, too, the great lines of development were missing.
It is evident that in such a way no real national enthusiasm could be aroused. Our educational system proved incapable of selecting from the general mass of our historical personages the names of a few personalities which the German people could be proud to look upon as their own. Thus the whole nation might have been united by the ties of a common knowledge of this common heritage. The really important figures in German history were not presented to the present generation. The attention of the whole nation was not concentrated on them for the purpose of awakening a common national spirit. From the various subjects that were taught, those who had charge of our training seemed incapable of selecting what redounded most to the national honour and lifting that above the common objective level, in order to inflame the national pride in the light of such brilliant examples. At that time such a course would have been looked upon as rank chauvinism, which did not then have a very pleasant savour. Pettifogging dynastic patriotism was more acceptable and more easily tolerated than the glowing fire of a supreme national pride. The former could be always pressed into service, whereas the latter might one day become a dominating force. Monarchist patriotism terminated in Associations of Veterans, whereas passionate national patriotism might have opened a road which would be difficult to determine. This national passion is like a highly tempered thoroughbred who is discriminate about the sort of rider he will tolerate in the saddle. No wonder that most people preferred to shirk such a danger. Nobody seemed to think it possible that one day a war might come which would put the mettle of this kind of patriotism to the test, in artillery bombardment and waves of attacks with poison gas. But when it did come our lack of this patriotic passion was avenged in a terrible way. None were very enthusiastic about dying for their imperial and royal sovereigns; while on the other hand the 'Nation' was not recognized by the greater number of the soldiers.
Since the revolution broke out in Germany and the monarchist patriotism was therefore extinguished, the purpose of teaching history was nothing more than to add to the stock of objective knowledge. The present State has no use for patriotic enthusiasm; but it will never obtain what it really desires. For if dynastic patriotism failed to produce a supreme power of resistance at a time when the principle of nationalism dominated, it will be still less possible to arouse republican enthusiasm. There can be no doubt that the German people would not have stood on the field of battle for four and a half years to fight under the battle slogan 'For the Republic,' and least of all those who created this grand institution.
In reality this Republic has been allowed to exist undisturbed only by grace of its readiness and its promise to all and sundry, to pay tribute and reparations to the stranger and to put its signature to any kind of territorial renunciation. The rest of the world finds it sympathetic, just as a weakling is always more pleasing to those who want to bend him to their own uses than is a man who is made of harder metal. But the fact that the enemy likes this form of government is the worst kind of condemnation. They love the German Republic and tolerate its existence because no better instrument could be found which would help them to keep our people in slavery. It is to this fact alone that this magnanimous institution owes its survival. And that is why it can renounce any real system of national education and can feel satisfied when the heroes of the Reich banner shout their hurrahs, but in reality these same heroes would scamper away like rabbits if called upon to defend that banner with their blood.
The People's State will have to fight for its existence. It will not gain or secure this existence by signing documents like that of the Dawes Plan. But for its existence and defence it will need precisely those things which our present system believes can be repudiated. The more worthy its form and its inner national being. the greater will be the envy and opposition of its adversaries. The best defence will not be in the arms it possesses but in its citizens. Bastions of fortresses will not save it, but the living wall of its men and women, filled with an ardent love for their country and a passionate spirit of national patriotism.
Therefore the third point which will have to be considered in relation to our educational system is the following:
The People's State must realize that the sciences may also be made a means of promoting a spirit of pride in the nation. Not only the history of the world but the history of civilization as a whole must be taught in the light of this principle. An inventor must appear great not only as an inventor but also, and even more so, as a member of the nation. The admiration aroused by the contemplation of a great achievement must be transformed into a feeling of pride and satisfaction that a man of one's own race has been chosen to accomplish it. But out of the abundance of great names in German history the greatest will have to be selected and presented to our young generation in such a way as to become solid pillars of strength to support the national spirit.
The subject matter ought to be systematically organized from the standpoint of this principle. And the teaching should be so orientated that the boy or girl, after leaving school, will not be a semi-pacifist, a democrat or of something else of that kind, but a whole-hearted German. So that this national feeling be sincere from the very beginning, and not a mere pretence, the following fundamental and inflexible principle should be impressed on the young brain while it is yet malleable: The man who loves his nation can prove the sincerity of this sentiment only by being ready to make sacrifices for the nation's welfare. There is no such thing as a national sentiment which is directed towards personal interests. And there is no such thing as a nationalism that embraces only certain classes. Hurrahing proves nothing and does not confer the right to call oneself national if behind that shout there is no sincere preoccupation for the conservation of the nation's well-being. One can be proud of one's people only if there is no class left of which one need to be ashamed. When one half of a nation is sunk in misery and worn out by hard distress, or even depraved or degenerate, that nation presents such an unattractive picture that nobody can feel proud to belong to it. It is only when a nation is sound in all its members, physically and morally, that the joy of belonging to it can properly be intensified to the supreme feeling which we call national pride. But this pride, in its highest form, can be felt only by those who know the greatness of their nation.
The spirit of nationalism and a feeling for social justice must be fused into one sentiment in the hearts of the youth. Then a day will come when a nation of citizens will arise which will be welded together through a common love and a common pride that shall be invincible and indestructible for ever.
The dread of chauvinism, which is a symptom of our time, is a sign of its impotence. Since our epoch not only lacks everything in the nature of exuberant energy but even finds such a manifestation disagreeable, fate will never elect it for the accomplishment of any great deeds. For the greatest changes that have taken place on this earth would have been inconceivable if they had not been inspired by ardent and even hysterical passions, but only by the bourgeois virtues of peacefulness and order.
One thing is certain: our world is facing a great revolution. The only question is whether the outcome will be propitious for the Aryan portion of mankind or whether the everlasting Jew will profit by it.
By educating the young generation along the right lines, the People's State will have to see to it that a generation of mankind is formed which will be adequate to this supreme combat that will decide the destinies of the world.
That nation will conquer which will be the first to take this road.
The whole organization of education and training which the People's State is to build up must take as its crowning task the work of instilling into the hearts and brains of the youth entrusted to it the racial instinct and understanding of the racial idea. No boy or girl must leave school without having attained a clear insight into the meaning of racial purity and the importance of maintaining the racial blood unadulterated. Thus the first indispensable condition for the preservation of our race will have been established and thus the future cultural progress of our people will be assured.
For in the last analysis all physical and mental training would be in vain unless it served an entity which is ready and determined to carry on its own existence and maintain its own characteristic qualities.
If it were otherwise, something would result which we Germans have cause to regret already, without perhaps having hitherto recognized the extent of the tragic calamity. We should be doomed to remain also in the future only manure for civilization. And that not in the banal sense of the contemporary bourgeois mind, which sees in a lost fellow member of our people only a lost citizen, but in a sense which we should have painfully to recognize: namely, that our racial blood would be destined to disappear. By continually mixing with other races we might lift them from their former lower level of civilization to a higher grade; but we ourselves should descend for ever from the heights we had reached.
Finally, from the racial standpoint this training also must find its culmination in the military service. The term of military service is to be a final stage of the normal training which the average German receives.
While the People's State attaches the greatest importance to physical and mental training, it has also to consider, and no less importantly, the task of selecting men for the service of the State itself. This important matter is passed over lightly at the present time. Generally the children of parents who are for the time being in higher situations are in their turn considered worthy of a higher education. Here talent plays a subordinate part. But talent can be estimated only relatively. Though in general culture he may be inferior to the city child, a peasant boy may be more talented than the son of a family that has occupied high positions through many generations. But the superior culture of the city child has in itself nothing to do with a greater or lesser degree of talent; for this culture has its roots in the more copious mass of impressions which arise from the more varied education and the surroundings among which this child lives. If the intelligent son of peasant parents were educated from childhood in similar surroundings his intellectual accomplishments would be quite otherwise. In our day there is only one sphere where the family in which a person has been born means less than his innate gifts. That is the sphere of art. Here, where a person cannot just 'learn,' but must have innate gifts that later on may undergo a more or less happy development (in the sense of a wise development of what is already there), money and parental property are of no account. This is a good proof that genius is not necessarily connected with the higher social strata or with wealth. Not rarely the greatest artists come from poor families. And many a boy from the country village has eventually become a celebrated master.
It does not say much for the mental acumen of our time that advantage is not taken of this truth for the sake of our whole intellectual life. The opinion is advanced that this principle, though undoubtedly valid in the field of art, has not the same validity in regard to what are called the applied sciences. It is true that a man can be trained to a certain amount of mechanical dexterity, just as a poodle can be taught incredible tricks by a clever master. But such training does not bring the animal to use his intelligence in order to carry out those tricks. And the same holds good in regard to man. It is possible to teach men, irrespective of talent or no talent, to go through certain scientific exercises, but in such cases the results are quite as inanimate and mechanical as in the case of the animal. It would even be possible to force a person of mediocre intelligence, by means of a severe course of intellectual drilling, to acquire more than the average amount of knowledge; but that knowledge would remain sterile. The result would be a man who might be a walking dictionary of knowledge but who will fail miserably on every critical occasion in life and at every juncture where vital decisions have to be taken. Such people need to be drilled specially for every new and even most insignificant task and will never be capable of contributing in the least to the general progress of mankind. Knowledge that is merely drilled into people can at best qualify them to fill government positions under our present regime.
It goes without saying that, among the sum total of individuals who make up a nation, gifted people are always to be found in every sphere of life. It is also quite natural that the value of knowledge will be all the greater the more vitally the dead mass of learning is animated by the innate talent of the individual who possesses it. Creative work in this field can be done only through the marriage of knowledge and talent.
One example will suffice to show how much our contemporary world is at fault in this matter. From time to time our illustrated papers publish, for the edification of the German philistine, the news that in some quarter or other of the globe, and for the first time in that locality, a Negro has become a lawyer, a teacher, a pastor, even a grand opera tenor or something else of that kind. While the bourgeois blockhead stares with amazed admiration at the notice that tells him how marvellous are the achievements of our modern educational technique, the more cunning Jew sees in this fact a new proof to be utilized for the theory with which he wants to infect the public, namely that all men are equal. It does not dawn on the murky bourgeois mind that the fact which is published for him is a sin against reason itself, that it is an act of criminal insanity to train a being who is only an anthropoid by birth until the pretence can be made that he has been turned into a lawyer; while, on the other hand, millions who belong to the most civilized races have to remain in positions which are unworthy of their cultural level. The bourgeois mind does not realize that it is a sin against the will of the eternal Creator to allow hundreds of thousands of highly gifted people to remain floundering in the swamp of proletarian misery while Hottentots and Zulus are drilled to fill positions in the intellectual professions. For here we have the product only of a drilling technique, just as in the case of the performing dog. If the same amount of care and effort were applied among intelligent races each individual would become a thousand times more capable in such matters.
This state of affairs would become intolerable if a day should arrive when it no longer refers to exceptional cases. But the situation is already intolerable where talent and natural gifts are not taken as decisive factors in qualifying for the right to a higher education. It is indeed intolerable to think that year after year hundreds of thousands of young people without a single vestige of talent are deemed worthy of a higher education, while other hundreds of thousands who possess high natural gifts have to go without any sort of higher schooling at all. The practical loss thus caused to the nation is incalculable. If the number of important discoveries which have been made in America has grown considerably in recent years one of the reasons is that the number of gifted persons belonging to the lowest social classes who were given a higher education in that country is proportionately much larger than in Europe.
A stock of knowledge packed into the brain will not suffice for the making of discoveries. What counts here is only that knowledge which is illuminated by natural talent. But with us at the present time no value is placed on such gifts. Only good school reports count.
Here is another educative work that is waiting for the People's State to do. It will not be its task to assure a dominant influence to a certain social class already existing, but it will be its duty to attract the most competent brains in the total mass of the nation and promote them to place and honour. It is not merely the duty of the State to give to the average child a certain definite education in the primary school, but it is also its duty to open the road to talent in the proper direction. And above all, it must open the doors of the higher schools under the State to talent of every sort, no matter in what social class it may appear. This is an imperative necessity; for thus alone will it be possible to develop a talented body of public leaders from the class which represents learning that in itself is only a dead mass.
There is still another reason why the State should provide for this situation. Our intellectual class, particularly in Germany, is so shut up in itself and fossilized that it lacks living contact with the classes beneath it. Two evil consequences result from this: First, the intellectual class neither understands nor sympathizes with the broad masses. It has been so long cut off from all connection with them that it cannot now have the necessary psychological ties that would enable it to understand them. It has become estranged from the people. Secondly, the intellectual class lacks the necessary will-power; for this faculty is always weaker in cultivated circles, which live in seclusion, than among the primitive masses of the people. God knows we Germans have never been lacking in abundant scientific culture, but we have always had a considerable lack of will-power and the capacity for making decisions. For example, the more 'intellectual' our statesmen have been the more lacking they have been, for the most part, in practical achievement. Our political preparation and our technical equipment for the world war were defective, certainly not because the brains governing the nation were too little educated, but because the men who directed our public affairs were over-educated, filled to over-flowing with knowledge and intelligence, yet without any sound instinct and simply without energy, or any spirit of daring. It was our nation's tragedy to have to fight for its existence under a Chancellor who was a dillydallying philosopher. If instead of a Bethmann von Hollweg we had had a rough man of the people as our leader the heroic blood of the common grenadier would not have been shed in vain. The exaggeratedly intellectual material out of which our leaders were made proved to be the best ally of the scoundrels who carried out the November revolution. These intellectuals safeguarded the national wealth in a miserly fashion, instead of launching it forth and risking it, and thus they set the conditions on which the others won success.
Here the Catholic Church presents an instructive example. Clerical celibacy forces the Church to recruit its priests not from their own ranks but progressively from the masses of the people. Yet there are not many who recognize the significance of celibacy in this relation. But therein lies the cause of the inexhaustible vigour which characterizes that ancient institution. For by thus unceasingly recruiting the ecclesiastical dignitaries from the lower classes of the people, the Church is enabled not only to maintain the contact of instinctive understanding with the masses of the population but also to assure itself of always being able to draw upon that fund of energy which is present in this form only among the popular masses. Hence the surprising youthfulness of that gigantic organism, its mental flexibility and its iron will-power.
It will be the task of the Peoples' State so to organize and administer its educational system that the existing intellectual class will be constantly furnished with a supply of fresh blood from beneath. From the bulk of the nation the State must sift out with careful scrutiny those persons who are endowed with natural talents and see that they are employed in the service of the community. For neither the State itself nor the various departments of State exist to furnish revenues for members of a special class, but to fulfil the tasks allotted to them. This will be possible, however, only if the State trains individuals specially for these offices. Such individuals must have the necessary fundamental capabilities and will-power. The principle does not hold true only in regard to the civil service but also in regard to all those who are to take part in the intellectual and moral leadership of the people, no matter in what sphere they may be employed. The greatness of a people is partly dependent on the condition that it must succeed in training the best brains for those branches of the public service for which they show a special natural aptitude and in placing them in the offices where they can do their best work for the good of the community. If two nations of equal strength and quality engage in a mutual conflict that nation will come out victorious which has entrusted its intellectual and moral leadership to its best talents and that nation will go under whose government represents only a common food trough for privileged groups or classes and where the inner talents of its individual members are not availed of.
Of course such a reform seems impossible in the world as it is today. The objection will at once be raised, that it is too much to expect from the favourite son of a highly-placed civil servant, for instance, that he shall work with his hands simply because somebody else whose parents belong to the working-class seems more capable for a job in the civil service. That argument may be valid as long as manual work is looked upon in the same way as it is looked upon today. Hence the Peoples' State will have to take up an attitude towards the appreciation of manual labour which will be fundamentally different from that which now exists. If necessary, it will have to organize a persistent system of teaching which will aim at abolishing the present-day stupid habit of looking down on physical labour as an occupation to be ashamed of.
The individual will have to be valued, not by the class of work he does but by the way in which he does it and by its usefulness to the community. This statement may sound monstrous in an epoch when the most brainless columnist on a newspaper staff is more esteemed than the most expert mechanic, merely because the former pushes a pen. But, as I have said, this false valuation does not correspond to the nature of things. It has been artificially introduced, and there was a time when it did not exist at all. The present unnatural state of affairs is one of those general morbid phenomena that have arisen from our materialistic epoch. Fundamentally every kind of work has a double value; the one material, the other ideal. The material value depends on the practical importance of the work to the life of the community. The greater the number of the population who benefit from the work, directly or indirectly, the higher will be its material value. This evaluation is expressed in the material recompense which the individual receives for his labour. In contradistinction to this purely material value there is the ideal value. Here the work performed is not judged by its material importance but by the degree to which it answers a necessity. Certainly the material utility of an invention may be greater than that of the service rendered by an everyday workman; but it is also certain that the community needs each of those small daily services just as much as the greater services. From the material point of view a distinction can be made in the evaluation of different kinds of work according to their utility to the community, and this distinction is expressed by the differentiation in the scale of recompense; but on the ideal or abstract plans all workmen become equal the moment each strives to do his best in his own field, no matter what that field may be. It is on this that a man's value must be estimated, and not on the amount of recompense received.
In a reasonably directed State care must be taken that each individual is given the kind of work which corresponds to his capabilities. In other words, people will be trained for the positions indicated by their natural endowments; but these endowments or faculties are innate and cannot be acquired by any amount of training, being a gift from Nature and not merited by men. Therefore, the way in which men are generally esteemed by their fellow-citizens must not be according to the kind of work they do, because that has been more or less assigned to the individual. Seeing that the kind of work in which the individual is employed is to be accounted to his inborn gifts and the resultant training which he has received from the community, he will have to be judged by the way in which he performs this work entrusted to him by the community. For the work which the individual performs is not the purpose of his existence, but only a means. His real purpose in life is to better himself and raise himself to a higher level as a human being; but this he can only do in and through the community whose cultural life he shares. And this community must always exist on the foundations on which the State is based. He ought to contribute to the conservation of those foundations. Nature determines the form of this contribution. It is the duty of the individual to return to the community, zealously and honestly, what the community has given him. He who does this deserves the highest respect and esteem. Material remuneration may be given to him whose work has a corresponding utility for the community; but the ideal recompense must lie in the esteem to which everybody has a claim who serves his people with whatever powers Nature has bestowed upon him and which have been developed by the training he has received from the national community. Then it will no longer be dishonourable to be an honest craftsman; but it will be a cause of disgrace to be an inefficient State official, wasting God's day and filching daily bread from an honest public. Then it will be looked upon as quite natural that positions should not be given to persons who of their very nature are incapable of filling them.
Furthermore, this personal efficiency will be the sole criterion of the right to take part on an equal juridical footing in general civil affairs.
The present epoch is working out its own ruin. It introduces universal suffrage, chatters about equal rights but can find no foundation for this equality. It considers the material wage as the expression of a man's value and thus destroys the basis of the noblest kind of equality that can exist. For equality cannot and does not depend on the work a man does, but only on the manner in which each one does the particular work allotted to him. Thus alone will mere natural chance be set aside in determining the work of a man and thus only does the individual become the artificer of his own social worth.
At the present time, when whole groups of people estimate each other's value only by the size of the salaries which they respectively receive, there will be no understanding of all this. But that is no reason why we should cease to champion those ideas. Quite the opposite: in an epoch which is inwardly diseased and decaying anyone who would heal it must have the courage first to lay bare the real roots of the disease. And the National Socialist Movement must take that duty on its shoulders. It will have to lift its voice above the heads of the small bourgeoisie and rally together and co-ordinate all those popular forces which are ready to become the protagonists of a new philosophy of life.

Of course the objection will be made that in general it is difficult to differentiate between the material and ideal values of work and that the lower prestige which is attached to physical labour is due to the fact that smaller wages are paid for that kind of work. It will be said that the lower wage is in its turn the reason why the manual worker has less chance to participate in the culture of the nation; so that the ideal side of human culture is less open to him because it has nothing to do with his daily activities. It may be added that the reluctance to do physical work is justified by the fact that, on account of the small income, the cultural level of manual labourers must naturally be low, and that this in turn is a justification for the lower estimation in which manual labour is generally held.
There is quite a good deal of truth in all this. But that is the very reason why we ought to see that in the future there should not be such a wide difference in the scale of remuneration. Don't say that under such conditions poorer work would be done. It would be the saddest symptom of decadence if finer intellectual work could be obtained only through the stimulus of higher payment. If that point of view had ruled the world up to now humanity would never have acquired its greatest scientific and cultural heritage. For all the greatest inventions, the greatest discoveries, the most profoundly revolutionary scientific work, and the most magnificent monuments of human culture, were never given to the world under the impulse or compulsion of money. Quite the contrary: not rarely was their origin associated with a renunciation of the worldly pleasures that wealth can purchase.
It may be that money has become the one power that governs life today. Yet a time will come when men will again bow to higher gods. Much that we have today owes its existence to the desire for money and property; but there is very little among all this which would leave the world poorer by its lack.
It is also one of the aims before our movement to hold out the prospect of a time when the individual will be given what he needs for the purposes of his life and it will be a time in which, on the other hand, the principle will be upheld that man does not live for material enjoyment alone. This principle will find expression in a wiser scale of wages and salaries which will enable everyone, including the humblest workman who fulfils his duties conscientiously, to live an honourable and decent life both as a man and as a citizen. Let it not be said that this is merely a visionary ideal, that this world would never tolerate it in practice and that of itself it is impossible to attain.
Even we are not so simple as to believe that there will ever be an age in which there will be no drawbacks. But that does not release us from the obligation to fight for the removal of the defects which we have recognized, to overcome the shortcomings and to strive towards the ideal. In any case the hard reality of the facts to be faced will always place only too many limits to our aspirations. But that is precisely why man must strive again and again to serve the ultimate aim and no failures must induce him to renounce his intentions, just as we cannot spurn the sway of justice because mistakes creep into the administration of the law, and just as we cannot despise medical science because, in spite of it, there will always be diseases.
Man should take care not to have too low an estimate of the power of an ideal. If there are some who may feel disheartened over the present conditions, and if they happen to have served as soldiers, I would remind them of the time when their heroism was the most convincing example of the power inherent in ideal motives. It was not preoccupation about their daily bread that led men to sacrifice their lives, but the love of their country, the faith which they had in its greatness, and an all round feeling for the honour of the nation. Only after the German people had become estranged from these ideals, to follow the material promises offered by the Revolution, only after they threw away their arms to take up the rucksack, only then V instead of entering an earthly paradise V did they sink into the purgatory of universal contempt and at the same time universal want.
That is why we must face the calculators of the materialist Republic with faith in an idealist Reich.

----------

[Previous Chapter (Philosophy and Party)] [Home] [Next Chapter (Subjects and Citizens)]
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter III Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter III: Subjects and Citizens

The institution that is now erroneously called the State generally classifies people only into two groups: citizens and aliens. Citizens are all those who possess full civic rights, either by reason of their birth or by an act of naturalization. Aliens are those who enjoy the same rights in some other State. Between these two categories there are certain beings who resemble a sort of meteoric phenomena. They are people who have no citizenship in any State and consequently no civic rights anywhere.
In most cases nowadays a person acquires civic rights by being born within the frontiers of a State. The race or nationality to which he may belong plays no role whatsoever. The child of a Negro who once lived in one of the German protectorates and now takes up his residence in Germany automatically becomes a 'German Citizen' in the eyes of the world. In the same way the child of any Jew, Pole, African or Asian may automatically become a German Citizen.
Besides naturalization that is acquired through the fact of having been born within the confines of a State there exists another kind of naturalization which can be acquired later. This process is subject to various preliminary requirements. For example one condition is that, if possible, the applicant must not be a burglar or a common street thug. It is required of him that his political attitude is not such as to give cause for uneasiness; in other words he must be a harmless simpleton in politics. It is required that he shall not be a burden to the State of which he wishes to become a citizen. In this realistic epoch of ours this last condition naturally only means that he must not be a financial burden. If the affairs of the candidate are such that it appears likely he will turn out to be a good taxpayer, that is a very important consideration and will help him to obtain civic rights all the more rapidly.
The question of race plays no part at all.
The whole process of acquiring civic rights is not very different from that of being admitted to membership of an automobile club, for instance. A person files his application. It is examined. It is sanctioned. And one day the man receives a card which informs him that he has become a citizen. The information is given in an amusing way. An applicant who has hitherto been a Zulu or Kaffir is told: "By these presents you are now become a German Citizen."
The President of the State can perform this piece of magic. What God Himself could not do is achieved by some Theophrastus Paracelsus of a civil servant through a mere twirl of the hand. Nothing but a stroke of the pen, and a Mongolian slave is forthwith turned into a real German. Not only is no question asked regarding the race to which the new citizen belongs; even the matter of his physical health is not inquired into. His flesh may be corrupted with syphilis; but he will still be welcome in the State as it exists today so long as he may not become a financial burden or a political danger.
In this way, year after year, those organisms which we call States take up poisonous matter which they can hardly ever overcome.
Another point of distinction between a citizen and an alien is that the former is admitted to all public offices, that he may possibly have to do military service and that in return he is permitted to take a passive or active part at public elections. Those are his chief privileges. For in regard to personal rights and personal liberty the alien enjoys the same amount of protection as the citizen, and frequently even more. Anyhow that is how it happens in our present German Republic.
I realize fully that nobody likes to hear these things. But it would be difficult to find anything more illogical or more insane than our contemporary laws in regard to State citizenship.
At present there exists one State which manifests at least some modest attempts that show a better appreciation of how things ought to be done in this matter. It is not, however, in our model German Republic but in the U.S.A. that efforts are made to conform at least partly to the counsels of commonsense. By refusing immigrants to enter there if they are in a bad state of health, and by excluding certain races from the right to become naturalized as citizens, they have begun to introduce principles similar to those on which we wish to ground the People's State.
The People's State will classify its population in three groups: Citizens, subjects of the State, and aliens.
The principle is that birth within the confines of the State gives only the status of a subject. It does not carry with it the right to fill any position under the State or to participate in political life, such as taking an active or passive part in elections. Another principle is that the race and nationality of every subject of the State will have to be proved. A subject is at any time free to cease being a subject and to become a citizen of that country to which he belongs in virtue of his nationality. The only difference between an alien and a subject of the State is that the former is a citizen of another country.
The young boy or girl who is of German nationality and is a subject of the German State is bound to complete the period of school education which is obligatory for every German. Thereby he submits to the system of training which will make him conscious of his race and a member of the folk-community. Then he has to fulfil all those requirements laid down by the State in regard to physical training after he has left school; and finally he enters the army. The training in the army is of a general kind. It must be given to each individual German and will render him competent to fulfil the physical and mental requirements of military service. The rights of citizenship shall be conferred on every young man whose health and character have been certified as good, after having completed his period of military service. This act of inauguration in citizenship shall be a solemn ceremony. And the diploma conferring the rights of citizenship will be preserved by the young man as the most precious testimonial of his whole life. It entitles him to exercise all the rights of a citizen and to enjoy all the privileges attached thereto. For the State must draw a sharp line of distinction between those who, as members of the nation, are the foundation and the support of its existence and greatness, and those who are domiciled in the State simply as earners of their livelihood there.
On the occasion of conferring a diploma of citizenship the new citizen must take a solemn oath of loyalty to the national community and the State. This diploma must be a bond which unites together all the various classes and sections of the nation. It shall be a greater honour to be a citizen of this Reich, even as a street-sweeper, than to be the King of a foreign State.
The citizen has privileges which are not accorded to the alien. He is the master in the Reich. But this high honour has also its obligations. Those who show themselves without personal honour or character, or common criminals, or traitors to the fatherland, can at any time be deprived of the rights of citizenship. Therewith they become merely subjects of the State.
The German girl is a subject of the State but will become a citizen when she marries. At the same time those women who earn their livelihood independently have the right to acquire citizenship if they are German subjects.

----------

[Previous Chapter (The State)] [Home] [Next Chapter (Personality and the Conception of the Folkish State)]
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter IV Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter IV: Personality and the Conception of the Folkish State

If the principal duty of the National Socialist People's State be to educate and promote the existence of those who are the material out of which the State is formed, it will not be sufficient to promote those racial elements as such, educate them and finally train them for practical life, but the State must also adapt its own organization to meet the demands of this task.
It would be absurd to appraise a man's worth by the race to which he belongs and at the same time to make war against the Marxist principle, that all men are equal, without being determined to pursue our own principle to its ultimate consequences. If we admit the significance of blood, that is to say, if we recognize the race as the fundamental element on which all life is based, we shall have to apply to the individual the logical consequences of this principle. In general I must estimate the worth of nations differently, on the basis of the different races from which they spring, and I must also differentiate in estimating the worth of the individual within his own race. The principle, that one people is not the same as another, applies also to the individual members of a national community. No one brain, for instance, is equal to another; because the constituent elements belonging to the same blood vary in a thousand subtle details, though they are fundamentally of the same quality.
The first consequence of this fact is comparatively simple. It demands that those elements within the folk-community which show the best racial qualities ought to be encouraged more than the others and especially they should be encouraged to increase and multiply.
This task is comparatively simple because it can be recognized and carried out almost mechanically. It is much more difficult to select from among a whole multitude of people all those who actually possess the highest intellectual and spiritual characteristics and assign them to that sphere of influence which not only corresponds to their outstanding talents but in which their activities will above all things be of benefit to the nation. This selection according to capacity and efficiency cannot be effected in a mechanical way. It is a work which can be accomplished only through the permanent struggle of everyday life itself.
A philosophy of life which repudiates the democratic principle of the rule of the masses and aims at giving this world to the best people V that is, to the highest quality of mankind V must also apply that same aristocratic postulate to the individuals within the folk-community. It must take care that the positions of leadership and highest influence are given to the best men. Hence it is not based on the idea of the majority, but on that of personality.
Anyone who believes that the People's National Socialist State should distinguish itself from the other States only mechanically, as it were, through the better construction of its economic life V thanks to a better equilibrium between poverty and riches, or to the extension to broader masses of the power to determine the economic process, or to a fairer wage, or to the elimination of vast differences in the scale of salaries V anyone who thinks this understands only the superficial features of our movement and has not the least idea of what we mean when we speak of our Weltanschhauung. All these features just mentioned could not in the least guarantee us a lasting existence and certainly would be no warranty of greatness. A nation that could content itself with external reforms would not have the slightest chance of success in the general struggle for life among the nations of the world. A movement that would confine its mission to such adjustments, which are certainly right and equitable, would effect no far-reaching or profound reform in the existing order. The whole effect of such measures would be limited to externals. They would not furnish the nation with that moral armament which alone will enable it effectively to overcome the weaknesses from which we are suffering today.
In order to elucidate this point of view it may be worth while to glance once again at the real origins and causes of the cultural evolution of mankind.
The first step which visibly brought mankind away from the animal world was that which led to the first invention. The invention itself owes its origin to the ruses and stratagems which man employed to assist him in the struggle with other creatures for his existence and often to provide him with the only means he could adopt to achieve success in the struggle. Those first very crude inventions cannot be attributed to the individual; for the subsequent observer, that is to say the modern observer, recognizes them only as collective phenomena. Certain tricks and skilful tactics which can be observed in use among the animals strike the eye of the observer as established facts which may be seen everywhere; and man is no longer in a position to discover or explain their primary cause and so he contents himself with calling such phenomena 'instinctive.'
In our case this term has no meaning. Because everyone who believes in the higher evolution of living organisms must admit that every manifestation of the vital urge and struggle to live must have had a definite beginning in time and that one subject alone must have manifested it for the first time. It was then repeated again and again; and the practice of it spread over a widening area, until finally it passed into the subconscience of every member of the species, where it manifested itself as 'instinct.'
This is more easily understood and more easy to believe in the case of man. His first skilled tactics in the struggle with the rest of the animals undoubtedly originated in his management of creatures which possessed special capabilities.
There can be no doubt that personality was then the sole factor in all decisions and achievements, which were afterwards taken over by the whole of humanity as a matter of course. An exact exemplification of this may be found in those fundamental military principles which have now become the basis of all strategy in war. Originally they sprang from the brain of a single individual and in the course of many years, maybe even thousands of years, they were accepted all round as a matter of course and this gained universal validity.
Man completed his first discovery by making a second. Among other things he learned how to master other living beings and make them serve him in his struggle for existence. And thus began the real inventive activity of mankind, as it is now visible before our eyes. Those material inventions, beginning with the use of stones as weapons, which led to the domestication of animals, the production of fire by artificial means, down to the marvellous inventions of our own days, show clearly that an individual was the originator in each case. The nearer we come to our own time and the more important and revolutionary the inventions become, the more clearly do we recognize the truth of that statement. All the material inventions which we see around us have been produced by the creative powers and capabilities of individuals. And all these inventions help man to raise himself higher and higher above the animal world and to separate himself from that world in an absolutely definite way. Hence they serve to elevate the human species and continually to promote its progress. And what the most primitive artifice once did for man in his struggle for existence, as he went hunting through the primeval forest, that same sort of assistance is rendered him today in the form of marvellous scientific inventions which help him in the present day struggle for life and to forge weapons for future struggles. In their final consequences all human thought and invention help man in his life-struggle on this planet, even though the so-called practical utility of an invention, a discovery or a profound scientific theory, may not be evident at first sight. Everything contributes to raise man higher and higher above the level of all the other creatures that surround him, thereby strengthening and consolidating his position; so that he develops more and more in every direction as the ruling being on this earth.
Hence all inventions are the result of the creative faculty of the individual. And all such individuals, whether they have willed it or not, are the benefactors of mankind, both great and small. Through their work millions and indeed billions of human beings have been provided with means and resources which facilitate their struggle for existence.
Thus at the origin of the material civilization which flourishes today we always see individual persons. They supplement one another and one of them bases his work on that of the other. The same is true in regard to the practical application of those inventions and discoveries. For all the various methods of production are in their turn inventions also and consequently dependent on the creative faculty of the individual. Even the purely theoretical work, which cannot be measured by a definite rule and is preliminary to all subsequent technical discoveries, is exclusively the product of the individual brain. The broad masses do not invent, nor does the majority organize or think; but always and in every case the individual man, the person.
Accordingly a human community is well organized only when it facilitates to the highest possible degree individual creative forces and utilizes their work for the benefit of the community. The most valuable factor of an invention, whether it be in the world of material realities or in the world of abstract ideas, is the personality of the inventor himself. The first and supreme duty of an organized folk community is to place the inventor in a position where he can be of the greatest benefit to all. Indeed the very purpose of the organization is to put this principle into practice. Only by so doing can it ward off the curse of mechanization and remain a living thing. In itself it must personify the effort to place men of brains above the multitude and to make the latter obey the former.
Therefore not only does the organization possess no right to prevent men of brains from rising above the multitude but, on the contrary, it must use its organizing powers to enable and promote that ascension as far as it possibly can. It must start out from the principle that the blessings of mankind never came from the masses but from the creative brains of individuals, who are therefore the real benefactors of humanity. It is in the interest of all to assure men of creative brains a decisive influence and facilitate their work. This common interest is surely not served by allowing the multitude to rule, for they are not capable of thinking nor are they efficient and in no case whatsoever can they be said to be gifted. Only those should rule who have the natural temperament and gifts of leadership.
Such men of brains are selected mainly, as I have already said, through the hard struggle for existence itself. In this struggle there are many who break down and collapse and thereby show that they are not called by Destiny to fill the highest positions; and only very few are left who can be classed among the elect. In the realm of thought and of artistic creation, and even in the economic field, this same process of selection takes place, although V especially in the economic field V its operation is heavily handicapped. This same principle of selection rules in the administration of the State and in that department of power which personifies the organized military defence of the nation. The idea of personality rules everywhere, the authority of the individual over his subordinates and the responsibility of the individual towards the persons who are placed over him. It is only in political life that this very natural principle has been completely excluded. Though all human civilization has resulted exclusively from the creative activity of the individual, the principle that it is the mass which counts V through the decision of the majority V makes its appearance only in the administration of the national community especially in the higher grades; and from there downwards the poison gradually filters into all branches of national life, thus causing a veritable decomposition. The destructive workings of Judaism in different parts of the national body can be ascribed fundamentally to the persistent Jewish efforts at undermining the importance of personality among the nations that are their hosts and, in place of personality, substituting the domination of the masses. The constructive principle of Aryan humanity is thus displaced by the destructive principle of the Jews, They become the 'ferment of decomposition' among nations and races and, in a broad sense, the wreckers of human civilization.
Marxism represents the most striking phase of the Jewish endeavour to eliminate the dominant significance of personality in every sphere of human life and replace it by the numerical power of the masses. In politics the parliamentary form of government is the expression of this effort. We can observe the fatal effects of it everywhere, from the smallest parish council upwards to the highest governing circles of the nation. In the field of economics we see the trade union movement, which does not serve the real interests of the employees but the destructive aims of international Jewry. Just to the same degree in which the principle of personality is excluded from the economic life of the nation, and the influence and activities of the masses substituted in its stead, national economy, which should be for the service and benefit of the community as a whole, will gradually deteriorate in its creative capacity. The shop committees which, instead of caring for the interests of the employees, strive to influence the process of production, serve the same destructive purpose. They damage the general productive system and consequently injure the individual engaged in industry. For in the long run it is impossible to satisfy popular demands merely by high-sounding theoretical phrases. These can be satisfied only by supplying goods to meet the individual needs of daily life and by so doing create the conviction that, through the productive collaboration of its members, the folk community serves the interests of the individual.
Even if, on the basis of its mass-theory, Marxism should prove itself capable of taking over and developing the present economic system, that would not signify anything. The question as to whether the Marxist doctrine be right or wrong cannot be decided by any test which would show that it can administer for the future what already exists today, but only by asking whether it has the creative power to build up according to its own principles a civilization which would be a counterpart of what already exists. Even if Marxism were a thousandfold capable of taking over the economic life as we now have it and maintaining it in operation under Marxist direction, such an achievement would prove nothing; because, on the basis of its own principles, Marxism would never be able to create something which could supplant what exists today.
And Marxism itself has furnished the proof that it cannot do this. Not only has it been unable anywhere to create a cultural or economic system of its own; but it was not even able to develop, according to its own principles, the civilization and economic system it found ready at hand. It has had to make compromises, by way of a return to the principle of personality, just as it cannot dispense with that principle in its own organization.
The folkish philosophy is fundamentally distinguished from the Marxist by reason of the fact that the former recognizes the significance of race and therefore also personal worth and has made these the pillars of its structure. These are the most important factors of its view of life.
If the National Socialist Movement should fail to understand the fundamental importance of this essential principle, if it should merely varnish the external appearance of the present State and adopt the majority principle, it would really do nothing more than compete with Marxism on its own ground. For that reason it would not have the right to call itself a philosophy of life. If the social programme of the movement consisted in eliminating personality and putting the multitude in its place, then National Socialism would be corrupted with the poison of Marxism, just as our national-bourgeois parties are.
The People's State must assure the welfare of its citizens by recognizing the importance of personal values under all circumstances and by preparing the way for the maximum of productive efficiency in all the various branches of economic life, thus securing to the individual the highest possible share in the general output.
Hence the People's State must mercilessly expurgate from all the leading circles in the government of the country the parliamentarian principle, according to which decisive power through the majority vote is invested in the multitude. Personal responsibility must be substituted in its stead.
From this the following conclusion results:
The best constitution and the best form of government is that which makes it quite natural for the best brains to reach a position of dominant importance and influence in the community.
Just as in the field of economics men of outstanding ability cannot be designated from above but must come forward in virtue of their own efforts, and just as there is an unceasing educative process that leads from the smallest shop to the largest undertaking, and just as life itself is the school in which those lessons are taught, so in the political field it is not possible to 'discover' political talent all in a moment. Genius of an extraordinary stamp is not to be judged by normal standards whereby we judge other men.
In its organization the State must be established on the principle of personality, starting from the smallest cell and ascending up to the supreme government of the country.
There are no decisions made by the majority vote, but only by responsible persons. And the word 'council' is once more restored to its original meaning. Every man in a position of responsibility will have councillors at his side, but the decision is made by that individual person alone.
The principle which made the former Prussian Army an admirable instrument of the German nation will have to become the basis of our statal constitution, that is to say, full authority over his subordinates must be invested in each leader and he must be responsible to those above him.
Even then we shall not be able to do without those corporations which at present we call parliaments. But they will be real councils, in the sense that they will have to give advice. The responsibility can and must be borne by one individual, who alone will be vested with authority and the right to command.
Parliaments as such are necessary because they alone furnish the opportunity for leaders to rise gradually who will be entrusted subsequently with positions of special responsibility.
The following is an outline of the picture which the organization will present:
From the municipal administration up to the government of the Reich, the People's State will not have any body of representatives which makes its decisions through the majority vote. It will have only advisory bodies to assist the chosen leader for the time being and he will distribute among them the various duties they are to perform. In certain fields they may, if necessary, have to assume full responsibility, such as the leader or president of each corporation possesses on a larger scale.
In principle the People's State must forbid the custom of taking advice on certain political problems V economics, for instance V from persons who are entirely incompetent because they lack special training and practical experience in such matters. Consequently the State must divide its representative bodies into a political chamber and a corporative chamber that represents the respective trades and professions.
To assure an effective co-operation between those two bodies, a selected body will be placed over them. This will be a special senate.
No vote will be taken in the chambers or senate. They are to be organizations for work and not voting machines. The individual members will have consultive votes but no right of decision will be attached thereto. The right of decision belongs exclusively to the president, who must be entirely responsible for the matter under discussion.
This principle of combining absolute authority with absolute responsibility will gradually cause a selected group of leaders to emerge; which is not even thinkable in our present epoch of irresponsible parliamentarianism.
The political construction of the nation will thereby be brought into harmony with those laws to which the nation already owes its greatness in the economic and cultural spheres.

Regarding the possibility of putting these principles into practice, I should like to call attention to the fact that the principle of parliamentarian democracy, whereby decisions are enacted through the majority vote, has not always ruled the world. On the contrary, we find it prevalent only during short periods of history, and those have always been periods of decline in nations and States.
One must not believe, however, that such a radical change could be effected by measures of a purely theoretical character, operating from above downwards; for the change I have been describing could not be limited to transforming the constitution of a State but would have to include the various fields of legislation and civic existence as a whole. Such a revolution can be brought about only by means of a movement which is itself organized under the inspiration of these principles and thus bears the germ of the future State in its own organism.
Therefore it is well for the National Socialist Movement to make itself completely familiar with those principles today and actually to put them into practice within its own organization, so that not only will it be in a position to serve as a guide for the future State but will have its own organization such that it can subsequently be placed at the disposal of the State itself.

----------

[Previous Chapter (Subjects and Citizens)] [Home] [Next Chapter (Philosophy and Organization)]
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter V Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter V: Philosophy and Organization

The People's State, which I have tried to sketch in general outline, will not become a reality in virtue of the simple fact that we know the indispensable conditions of its existence. It does not suffice to know what aspect such a State would present. The problem of its foundation is far more important. The parties which exist at present and which draw their profits from the State as it now is cannot be expected to bring about a radical change in the regime or to change their attitude on their own initiative. This is rendered all the more impossible because the forces which now have the direction of affairs in their hands are Jews here and Jews there and Jews everywhere. The trend of development which we are now experiencing would, if allowed to go on unhampered, lead to the realization of the Pan-Jewish prophecy that the Jews will one day devour the other nations and become lords of the earth.
In contrast to the millions of 'bourgeois' and 'proletarian' Germans, who are stumbling to their ruin, mostly through timidity, indolence and stupidity, the Jew pursues his way persistently and keeps his eye always fixed on his future goal. Any party that is led by him can fight for no other interests than his, and his interests certainly have nothing in common with those of the Aryan nations.
If we would transform our ideal picture of the People's State into a reality we shall have to keep independent of the forces that now control public life and seek for new forces that will be ready and capable of taking up the fight for such an ideal. For a fight it will have to be, since the first objective will not be to build up the idea of the People's State but rather to wipe out the Jewish State which is now in existence. As so often happens in the course of history, the main difficulty is not to establish a new order of things but to clear the ground for its establishment. Prejudices and egotistic interests join together in forming a common front against the new idea and in trying by every means to prevent its triumph, because it is disagreeable to them or threatens their existence.
That is why the protagonist of the new idea is unfortunately, in spite of his desire for constructive work, compelled to wage a destructive battle first, in order to abolish the existing state of affairs.
A doctrine whose principles are radically new and of essential importance must adopt the sharp probe of criticism as its weapon, though this may show itself disagreeable to the individual followers.
It is evidence of a very superficial insight into historical developments if the so-called folkists emphasize again and again that they will adopt the use of negative criticism under no circumstances but will engage only in constructive work. That is nothing but puerile chatter and is typical of the whole lot of folkists. It is another proof that the history of our own times has made no impression on these minds. Marxism too has had its aims to pursue and it also recognizes constructive work, though by this it understands only the establishment of despotic rule in the hands of international Jewish finance. Nevertheless for seventy years its principal work still remains in the field of criticism. And what disruptive and destructive criticism it has been! Criticism repeated again and again, until the corrosive acid ate into the old State so thoroughly that it finally crumbled to pieces. Only then did the so-called 'constructive' critical work of Marxism begin. And that was natural, right and logical. An existing order of things is not abolished by merely proclaiming and insisting on a new one. It must not be hoped that those who are the partisans of the existing order and have their interests bound up with it will be converted and won over to the new movement simply by being shown that something new is necessary. On the contrary, what may easily happen is that two different situations will exist side by side and that the-called philosophy is transformed into a party, above which level it will not be able to raise itself afterwards. For the philosophy is intolerant and cannot permit another to exist side by side with it. It imperiously demands its own recognition as unique and exclusive and a complete transformation in accordance with its views throughout all the branches of public life. It can never allow the previous state of affairs to continue in existence by its side.
And the same holds true of religions.
Christianity was not content with erecting an altar of its own. It had first to destroy the pagan altars. It was only in virtue of this passionate intolerance that an apodictic faith could grow up. And intolerance is an indispensable condition for the growth of such a faith.
It may be objected here that in these phenomena which we find throughout the history of the world we have to recognize mostly a specifically Jewish mode of thought and that such fanaticism and intolerance are typical symptoms of Jewish mentality. That may be a thousandfold true; and it is a fact deeply to be regretted. The appearance of intolerance and fanaticism in the history of mankind may be deeply regrettable, and it may be looked upon as foreign to human nature, but the fact does not change conditions as they exist today. The men who wish to liberate our German nation from the conditions in which it now exists cannot cudgel their brains with thinking how excellent it would be if this or that had never arisen. They must strive to find ways and means of abolishing what actually exists. A philosophy of life which is inspired by an infernal spirit of intolerance can only be set aside by a doctrine that is advanced in an equally ardent spirit and fought for with as determined a will and which is itself a new idea, pure and absolutely true.
Each one of us today may regret the fact that the advent of Christianity was the first occasion on which spiritual terror was introduced into the much freer ancient world, but the fact cannot be denied that ever since then the world is pervaded and dominated by this kind of coercion and that violence is broken only by violence and terror by terror. Only then can a new regime be created by means of constructive work. Political parties are prone to enter compromises; but a philosophy never does this. A political party is inclined to adjust its teachings with a view to meeting those of its opponents, but a philosophy proclaims its own infallibility.
In the beginning, political parties have also and nearly always the intention of securing an exclusive and despotic domination for themselves. They always show a slight tendency to become philosophical. But the limited nature of their programme is in itself enough to rob them of that heroic spirit which a philosophy demands. The spirit of conciliation which animates their will attracts those petty and chicken-hearted people who are not fit to be protagonists in any crusade. That is the reason why they mostly become struck in their miserable pettiness very early on the march. They give up fighting for their ideology and, by way of what they call 'positive collaboration,' they try as quickly as possible to wedge themselves into some tiny place at the trough of the existent regime and to stick there as long as possible. Their whole effort ends at that. And if they should get shouldered away from the common manger by a competition of more brutal manners then their only idea is to force themselves in again, by force or chicanery, among the herd of all the others who have similar appetites, in order to get back into the front row, and finally V even at the expense of their most sacred convictions V participate anew in that beloved spot where they find their fodder. They are the jackals of politics.
But a general philosophy of life will never share its place with something else. Therefore it can never agree to collaborate in any order of things that it condemns. On the contrary it feels obliged to employ every means in fighting against the old order and the whole world of ideas belonging to that order and prepare the way for its destruction.
These purely destructive tactics, the danger of which is so readily perceived by the enemy that he forms a united front against them for his common defence, and also the constructive tactics, which must be aggressive in order to carry the new world of ideas to success V both these phases of the struggle call for a body of resolute fighters. Any new philosophy of life will bring its ideas to victory only if the most courageous and active elements of its epoch and its people are enrolled under its standards and grouped firmly together in a powerful fighting organization. To achieve this purpose it is absolutely necessary to select from the general system of doctrine a certain number of ideas which will appeal to such individuals and which, once they are expressed in a precise and clear-cut form, will serve as articles of faith for a new association of men. While the programme of the ordinary political party is nothing but the recipe for cooking up favourable results out of the next general elections, the programme of a philosophy represents a declaration of war against an existing order of things, against present conditions, in short, against the established view of life in general.
It is not necessary, however, that every individual fighter for such a new doctrine need have a full grasp of the ultimate ideas and plans of those who are the leaders of the movement. It is only necessary that each should have a clear notion of the fundamental ideas and that he should thoroughly assimilate a few of the most fundamental principles, so that he will be convinced of the necessity of carrying the movement and its doctrines to success. The individual soldier is not initiated in the knowledge of high strategical plans. But he is trained to submit to a rigid discipline, to be passionately convinced of the justice and inner worth of his cause and that he must devote himself to it without reserve. So, too, the individual follower of a movement must be made acquainted with its far-reaching purpose, how it is inspired by a powerful will and has a great future before it.
Supposing that each soldier in an army were a general, and had the training and capacity for generalship, that army would not be an efficient fighting instrument. Similarly a political movement would not be very efficient in fighting for a philosophy if it were made up exclusively of intellectuals. No, we need the simple soldier also. Without him no discipline can be established.
By its very nature, an organization can exist only if leaders of high intellectual ability are served by a large mass of men who are emotionally devoted to the cause. To maintain discipline in a company of two hundred men who are equally intelligent and capable would turn out more difficult in the long run than in a company of one hundred and ninety less gifted men and ten who have had a higher education.
The Social-Democrats have profited very much by recognizing this truth. They took the broad masses of our people who had just completed military service and learned to submit to discipline, and they subjected this mass of men to the discipline of the Social-Democratic organization, which was no less rigid than the discipline through which the young men had passed in their military training. The Social-Democratic organization consisted of an army divided into officers and men. The German worker who had passed through his military service became the private soldier in that army, and the Jewish intellectual was the officer. The German trade union functionaries may be compared to the non-commissioned officers. The fact, which was always looked upon with indifference by our middle-classes, that only the so-called uneducated classes joined Marxism was the very ground on which this party achieved its success. For while the bourgeois parties, because they mostly consisted of intellectuals, were only a feckless band of undisciplined individuals, out of much less intelligent human material the Marxist leaders formed an army of party combatants who obey their Jewish masters just as blindly as they formerly obeyed their German officers. The German middle-classes, who never; bothered their heads about psychological problems because they felt themselves superior to such matters, did not think it necessary to reflect on the profound significance of this fact and the secret danger involved in it. Indeed they believed. that a political movement which draws its followers exclusively from intellectual circles must, for that very reason, be of greater importance and have better grounds. for its chances of success, and even a greater probability of taking over the government of the country than a party made up of the ignorant masses. They completely failed to realize the fact that the strength of a political party never consists in the intelligence and independent spirit of the rank-and-file of its members but rather in the spirit of willing obedience with which they follow their intellectual leaders. What is of decisive importance is the leadership itself. When two bodies of troops are arrayed in mutual combat victory will not fall to that side in which every soldier has an expert knowledge of the rules of strategy, but rather to that side which has the best leaders and at the same time the best disciplined, most blindly obedient and best drilled troops.
That is a fundamental piece of knowledge which we must always bear in mind when we examine the possibility of transforming a philosophy into a practical reality.
If we agree that in order to carry a philosophy into practical effect it must be incorporated in a fighting movement, then the logical consequence is that the programme of such a movement must take account of the human material at its disposal. Just as the ultimate aims and fundamental principles must be absolutely definite and unmistakable, so the propagandist programme must be well drawn up and must be inspired by a keen sense of its psychological appeals to the minds of those without whose help the noblest ideas will be doomed to remain in the eternal, realm of ideas.
If the idea of the People's State, which is at present an obscure wish, is one day to attain a clear and definite success, from its vague and vast mass of thought it will have to put forward certain definite principles which of their very nature and content are calculated to attract a broad mass of adherents; in other words, such a group of people as can guarantee that these principles will be fought for. That group of people are the German workers.
That is why the programme of the new movement was condensed into a few fundamental postulates, twenty-five in all. They are meant first of all to give the ordinary man a rough sketch of what the movement is aiming at. They are, so to say, a profession of faith which on the one hand is meant to win adherents to the movement and, on the other, they are meant to unite such adherents together in a covenant to which all have subscribed.
In these matters we must never lose sight of the following: What we call the programme of the movement is absolutely right as far as its ultimate aims are concerned, but as regards the manner in which that programme is formulated certain psychologica1 considerations had to be taken into account. Hence, in the course of time, the opinion may well arise that certain principles should be expressed differently and might be better formulated. But any attempt at a different formulation has a fatal effect in most cases. For something that ought to be fixed and unshakable thereby becomes the subject of discussion. As soon as one point alone is removed from the sphere of dogmatic certainty, the discussion will not simply result in a new and better formulation which will have greater consistency but may easily lead to endless debates and general confusion. In such cases the question must always be carefully considered as to whether a new and more adequate formulation is to be preferred, though it may cause a controversy within the movement, or whether it may not be better to retain the old formula which, though probably not the best, represents an organism enclosed in itself, solid and internally homogeneous. All experience shows that the second of these alternatives is preferable. For since in these changes one is dealing only with external forms such corrections will always appear desirable and possible. But in the last analysis the generality of people think superficially and therefore the great danger is that in what is merely an external formulation of the programme people will see an essential aim of the movement. In that way the will and the combative force at the service of the ideas are weakened and the energies that ought to be directed towards the outer world are dissipated in programmatic discussions within the ranks of the movement.
For a doctrine that is actually right in its main features it is less dangerous to retain a formulation which may no longer be quite adequate instead of trying to improve it and thereby allowing a fundamental principle of the movement, which had hitherto been considered as solid as granite, to become the subject of a general discussion which may have unfortunate consequences. This is particularly to be avoided as long as a movement is still fighting for victory. For would it be possible to inspire people with blind faith in the truth of a doctrine if doubt and uncertainty are encouraged by continual alterations in its external formulation?
The essentials of a teaching must never be looked for in its external formulas, but always in its inner meaning. And this meaning is unchangeable. And in its interest one can only wish that a movement should exclude everything that tends towards disintegration and uncertainty in order to preserve the unified force that is necessary for its triumph.
Here again the Catholic Church has a lesson to teach us. Though sometimes, and often quite unnecessarily, its dogmatic system is in conflict with the exact sciences and with scientific discoveries, it is not disposed to sacrifice a syllable of its teachings. It has rightly recognized that its powers of resistance would be weakened by introducing greater or less doctrinal adaptations to meet the temporary conclusions of science, which in reality are always vacillating. And thus it holds fast to its fixed and established dogmas which alone can give to the whole system the character of a faith. And that is the reason why it stands firmer today than ever before. We may prophesy that, as a fixed pole amid fleeting phenomena, it will continue to attract increasing numbers of people who will be blindly attached to it the more rapid the rhythm of changing phenomena around it.
Therefore whoever really and seriously desires that the idea of the People's State should triumph must realize that this triumph can be assured only through a militant movement and that this movement must ground its strength only on the granite firmness of an impregnable and firmly coherent programme. In regard to its formulas it must never make concessions to the spirit of the time but must maintain the form that has once and for all been decided upon as the right one; in any case until victory has crowned its efforts. Before this goal has been reached any attempt to open a discussion on the opportuneness of this or that point in the programme might tend to disintegrate the solidity and fighting strength of the movement, according to the measures in which its followers might take part in such an internal dispute. Some 'improvements' introduced today might be subjected to a critical examination to-morrow, in order to substitute it with something better the day after. Once the barrier has been taken down the road is opened and we know only the beginning, but we do not know to what shoreless sea it may lead.
This important principle had to be acknowledged in practice by the members of the National Socialist Movement at its very beginning. In its programme of twenty-five points the National Socialist German Labour Party has been furnished with a basis that must remain unshakable. The members of the movement, both present and future, must never feel themselves called upon to undertake a critical revision of these leading postulates, but rather feel themselves obliged to put them into practice as they stand. Otherwise the next generation would, in its turn and with equal right, expend its energy in such purely formal work within the party, instead of winning new adherents to the movement and thus adding to its power. For the majority of our followers the essence of the movement will consist not so much in the letter of our theses but in the meaning that we attribute to them.
The new movement owes its name to these considerations, and later on its programme was drawn up in conformity with them. They are the basis of our propaganda. In order to carry the idea of the People's State to victory, a popular party had to be founded, a party that did not consist of intellectual leaders only but also of manual labourers. Any attempt to carry these theories into effect without the aid of a militant organization would be doomed to failure today, as it has failed in the past and must fail in the future. That is why the movement is not only justified but it is also obliged to consider itself as the champion and representative of these ideas. Just as the fundamental principles of the National Socialist Movement are based on the folk idea, folk ideas are National Socialist. If National Socialism would triumph it will have to hold firm to this fact unreservedly, and here again it has not only the right but also the duty to emphasize most rigidly that any attempt to represent the folk idea outside of the National Socialist German Labour Party is futile and in most cases fraudulent.
If the reproach should be launched against our movement that it has 'monopolized' the folk idea, there is only one answer to give.
Not only have we monopolized the folk idea but, to all practical intents and purposes, we have created it.
For what hitherto existed under this name was not in the least capable of influencing the destiny of our people, since all those ideas lacked a political and coherent formulation. In most cases they are nothing but isolated and incoherent notions which are more or less right. Quite frequently these were in open contradiction to one another and in no case was there any internal cohesion among them. And even if this internal cohesion existed it would have been much too weak to form the basis of any movement.
Only the National Socialist Movement proved capable of fulfilling this task.

All kinds of associations and groups, big as well as little, now claim the title volkisch. This is one result of the work which National Socialism has done. Without this work, not one of all these parties would have thought of adopting the word volkisch at all. That expression would have meant nothing to them and especially their directors would never have had anything to do with such an idea. Not until the work of the German National Socialist Labour Party had given this idea a pregnant meaning did it appear in the mouths of all kinds of people. Our party above all, by the success of its propaganda, has shown the force of the folk idea; so much so that the others, in an effort to gain proselytes, find themselves forced to copy our example, at least in words.
Just as heretofore they exploited everything to serve their petty electoral purposes, today they use the word volkisch only as an external and hollow-sounding phrase for the purpose of counteracting the force of the impression which the National Socialist Party makes on the members of those other parties. Only the desire to maintain their existence and the fear that our movement may prevail, because it is based on a philosophy that is of universal importance, and because they feel that the exclusive character of our movement betokens danger for them V only for these reasons do they use words which they repudiated eight years ago, derided seven years ago, branded as stupid six years ago, combated five years ago, hated four years ago, and finally, two years ago, annexed and incorporated them in their present political vocabulary, employing them as war slogans in their struggle.
And so it is necessary even now not to cease calling attention to the fact that not one of those parties has the slightest idea of what the German nation needs. The most striking proof of this is represented by the superficial way in which they use the word volkisch.
Not less dangerous are those who run about as semi-folkists formulating fantastic schemes which are mostly based on nothing else than a fixed idea which in itself might be right but which, because it is an isolated notion, is of no use whatsoever for the formation of a great homogeneous fighting association and could by no means serve as the basis of its organization. Those people who concoct a programme which consists partly of their own ideas and partly of ideas taken from others, about which they have read somewhere, are often more dangerous than the outspoken enemies of the volkisch idea. At best they are sterile theorists but more frequently they are mischievous agitators of the public mind. They believe that they can mask their intellectual vanity, the futility of their efforts, and their lack of stability, by sporting flowing beards and indulging in ancient German gestures.
In face of all those futile attempts, it is therefore worth while to recall the time when the new National Socialist Movement began its fight.

----------

[Previous Chapter (Personality and the Conception of the Folkish State)] [Home] [Next Chapter (The Struggle of the Early Period -- The Significance of the Spoken Word)]
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter VI Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter VI: The Struggle of the Early Period -- The Significance of the Spoken Word

The echoes of our first great meeting, in the banquet hall of the Hofbrauhaus on February 24th, 1920, had not yet died away when we began preparations for our next meeting. Up to that time we had to consider carefully the venture of holding a small meeting every month or at most every fortnight in a city like Munich; but now it was decided that we should hold a mass meeting every week. I need not say that we anxiously asked ourselves on each occasion again and again: Will the people come and will they listen? Personally I was firmly convinced that if once they came they would remain and listen.
During that period the hall of the Hofbrau Haus in Munich acquired for us, National Socialists, a sort of mystic significance. Every week there was a meeting, almost always in that hall, and each time the hall was better filled than on the former occasion, and our public more attentive.
Starting with the theme, 'Responsibility for the War,' which nobody at that time cared about, and passing on to the discussion of the peace treaties, we dealt with almost everything that served to stimulate the minds of our audience and make them interested in our ideas. We drew attention to the peace treaties. What the new movement prophesied again and again before those great masses of people has been fulfilled almost in every detail. To-day it is easy to talk and write about these things. But in those days a public mass meeting which was attended not by the small bourgeoisie but by proletarians who had been aroused by agitators, to criticize the Peace Treaty of Versailles meant an attack on the Republic and an evidence of reaction, if not of monarchist tendencies. The moment one uttered the first criticism of the Versailles Treaty one could expect an immediate reply, which became almost stereotyped: 'And Brest-Litowsk?' 'Brest-Litowsk!' And then the crowd would murmur and the murmur would gradually swell into a roar, until the speaker would have to give up his attempt to persuade them. It would be like knocking one's head against a wall, so desperate were these people. They would not listen nor understand that Versailles was a scandal and a disgrace and that the dictate signified an act of highway robbery against our people. The disruptive work done by the Marxists and the poisonous propaganda of the external enemy had robbed these people of their reason. And one had no right to complain. For the guilt on this side was enormous. What had the German bourgeoisie done to call a halt to this terrible campaign of disintegration, to oppose it and open a way to a recognition of the truth by giving a better and more thorough explanation of the situation than that of the Marxists? Nothing, nothing. At that time I never saw those who are now the great apostles of the people. Perhaps they spoke to select groups, at tea parties of their own little coteries; but there where they should have been, where the wolves were at work, they never risked their appearance, unless it gave them the opportunity of yelling in concert with the wolves.
As for myself, I then saw clearly that for the small group which first composed our movement the question of war guilt had to be cleared up, and cleared up in the light of historical truth. A preliminary condition for the future success of our movement was that it should bring knowledge of the meaning of the peace treaties to the minds of the popular masses. In the opinion of the masses, the peace treaties then signified a democratic success. Therefore, it was necessary to take the opposite side and dig ourselves into the minds of the people as the enemies of the peace treaties; so that later on, when the naked truth of this despicable swindle would be disclosed in all its hideousness, the people would recall the position which we then took and would give us their confidence.
Already at that time I took up my stand on those important fundamental questions where public opinion had gone wrong as a whole. I opposed these wrong notions without regard either for popularity or for hatred, and I was ready to face the fight. The National Socialist German Labour Party ought not to be the beadle but rather the master of public opinion. It must not serve the masses but rather dominate them.
In the case of every movement, especially during its struggling stages, there is naturally a temptation to conform to the tactics of an opponent and use the same battle-cries, when his tactics have succeeded in leading the people to crazy conclusions or to adopt mistaken attitudes towards the questions at issue. This temptation is particularly strong when motives can be found, though they are entirely illusory, that seem to point towards the same ends which the young movement is aiming at. Human poltroonery will then all the more readily adopt those arguments which give it a semblance of justification, 'from its own point of view,' in participating in the criminal policy which the adversary is following.
On several occasions I have experienced such cases, in which the greatest energy had to be employed to prevent the ship of our movement from being drawn into a general current which had been started artificially, and indeed from sailing with it. The last occasion was when our German Press, the Hecuba of the existence of the German nation, succeeded in bringing the question of South Tyrol into a position of importance which was seriously damaging to the interests of the German people. Without considering what interests they were serving, several so-called 'national' men, parties and leagues, joined in the general cry, simply for fear of public opinion which had been excited by the Jews, and foolishly contributed to help in the struggle against a system which we Germans ought, particularly in those days, to consider as the one ray of light in this distracted world. While the international World-Jew is slowly but surely strangling us, our so-called patriots vociferate against a man and his system which have had the courage to liberate themselves from the shackles of Jewish Freemasonry at least in one quarter of the globe and to set the forces of national resistance against the international world-poison. But weak characters were tempted to set their sails according to the direction of the wind and capitulate before the shout of public opinion. For it was veritably a capitulation. They are so much in the habit of lying and so morally base that men may not admit this even to themselves, but the truth remains that only cowardice and fear of the public feeling aroused by the Jews induced certain people to join in the hue and cry. All the other reasons put forward were only miserable excuses of paltry culprits who were conscious of their own crime.
There it was necessary to grasp the rudder with an iron hand and turn the movement about, so as to save it from a course that would have led it on the rocks. Certainly to attempt such a change of course was not a popular manoeuvre at that time, because all the leading forces of public opinion had been active and a great flame of public feeling illuminated only one direction. Such a decision almost always brings disfavour on those who dare to take it. In the course of history not a few men have been stoned for an act for which posterity has afterwards thanked them on its knees.
But a movement must count on posterity and not on the plaudits of the movement. It may well be that at such moments certain individuals have to endure hours of anguish; but they should not forget that the moment of liberation will come and that a movement which purposes to reshape the world must serve the future and not the passing hour.
On this point it may be asserted that the greatest and most enduring successes in history are mostly those which were least understood at the beginning, because they were in strong contrast to public opinion and the views and wishes of the time.
We had experience of this when we made our own first public appearance. In all truth it can be said that we did not court public favour but made an onslaught on the follies of our people. In those days the following happened almost always: I presented myself before an assembly of men who believed the opposite of what I wished to say and who wanted the opposite of what I believed in. Then I had to spend a couple of hours in persuading two or three thousand people to give up the opinions they had first held, in destroying the foundations of their views with one blow after another and finally in leading them over to take their stand on the grounds of our own convictions and our philosophy of life.
I learned something that was important at that time, namely, to snatch from the hands of the enemy the weapons which he was using in his reply. I soon noticed that our adversaries, especially in the persons of those who led the discussion against us, were furnished with a definite repertoire of arguments out of which they took points against our claims which were being constantly repeated. The uniform character of this mode of procedure pointed to a systematic and unified training. And so we were able to recognize the incredible way in which the enemy's propagandists had been disciplined, and I am proud today that I discovered a means not only of making this propaganda ineffective but of beating the artificers of it at their own work. Two years later I was master of that art.
In every speech which I made it was important to get a clear idea beforehand of the probable form and matter of the counter-arguments we had to expect in the discussion, so that in the course of my own speech these could be dealt with and refuted. To this end it was necessary to mention all the possible objections and show their inconsistency; it was all the easier to win over an honest listener by expunging from his memory the arguments which had been impressed upon it, so that we anticipated our replies. What he had learned was refuted without having been mentioned by him and that made him all the more attentive to what I had to say.
That was the reason why, after my first lecture on the 'Peace Treaty of Versailles,' which I delivered to the troops while I was still a political instructor in my regiment, I made an alteration in the title and subject and henceforth spoke on 'The Treaties of Brest-Litowsk and Versailles.' For after the discussion which followed my first lecture I quickly ascertained that in reality people knew nothing about the Treaty of Brest-Litowsk and that able party propaganda had succeeded in presenting that Treaty as one of the most scandalous acts of violence in the history of the world.
As a result of the persistency with which this falsehood was repeated again and again before the masses of the people, millions of Germans saw in the Treaty of Versailles a just castigation for the crime we had committed at Brest-Litowsk. Thus they considered all opposition to Versailles as unjust and in many cases there was an honest moral dislike to such a proceeding. And this was also the reason why the shameless and monstrous word 'Reparations' came into common use in Germany. This hypocritical falsehood appeared to millions of our exasperated fellow countrymen as the fulfilment of a higher justice. It is a terrible thought, but the fact was so. The best proof of this was the propaganda which I initiated against Versailles by explaining the Treaty of Brest-Litowsk. I compared the two treaties with one another, point by point, and showed how in truth the one treaty was immensely humane, in contradistinction to the inhuman barbarity of the other. The effect was very striking. Then I spoke on this theme before an assembly of two thousand persons, during which I often saw three thousand six hundred hostile eyes fixed on me. And three hours later I had in front of me a swaying mass of righteous indignation and fury. A great lie had been uprooted from the hearts and brains of a crowd composed of thousands of individuals and a truth had been implanted in its place.
The two lectures V that 'On the Causes of the World War' and 'On the Peace Treaties of Brest-Litowsk and Versailles' respectively V I then considered as the most important of all. Therefore I repeated them dozens of times, always giving them a new intonation; until at least on those points a definitely clear and unanimous opinion reigned among those from whom our movement recruited its first members.
Furthermore, these gatherings brought me the advantage that I slowly became a platform orator at mass meetings, and gave me practice in the pathos and gesture required in large halls that held thousands of people.
Outside of the small circles which I have mentioned, at that time I found no party engaged in explaining things to the people in this way. Not one of these parties was then active which talk today as if it was they who had brought about the change in public opinion. If a political leader, calling himself a nationalist, pronounced a discourse somewhere or other on this theme it was only before circles which for the most part were already of his own conviction and among whom the most that was done was to confirm them in their opinions. But that was not what was needed then. What was needed was to win over through propaganda and explanation those whose opinions and mental attitudes held them bound to the enemy's camp.
The one-page circular was also adopted by us to help in this propaganda. While still a soldier I had written a circular in which I contrasted the Treaty of Brest-Litowsk with that of Versailles. That circular was printed and distributed in large numbers. Later on I used it for the party, and also with good success. Our first meetings were distinguished by the fact that there were tables covered with leaflets, papers, and pamphlets of every kind. But we relied principally on the spoken word. And, in fact, this is the only means capable of producing really great revolutions, which can be explained on general psychological grounds.
In the first volume I have already stated that all the formidable events which have changed the aspect of the world were carried through, not by the written but by the spoken word. On that point there was a long discussion in a certain section of the Press during the course of which our shrewd bourgeois people strongly opposed my thesis. But the reason for this attitude confounded the sceptics. The bourgeois intellectuals protested against my attitude simply because they themselves did not have the force or ability to influence the masses through the spoken word; for they always relied exclusively on the help of writers and did not enter the arena themselves as orators for the purpose of arousing the people. The development of events necessarily led to that condition of affairs which is characteristic of the bourgeoisie today, namely, the loss of the psychological instinct to act upon and influence the masses.
An orator receives continuous guidance from the people before whom he speaks. This helps him to correct the direction of his speech; for he can always gauge, by the faces of his hearers, how far they follow and understand him, and whether his words are producing the desired effect. But the writer does not know his reader at all. Therefore, from the outset he does not address himself to a definite human group of persons which he has before his eyes but must write in a general way. Hence, up to a certain extent he must fail in psychological finesse and flexibility. Therefore, in general it may be said that a brilliant orator writes better than a brilliant writer can speak, unless the latter has continual practice in public speaking. One must also remember that of itself the multitude is mentally inert, that it remains attached to its old habits and that it is not naturally prone to read something which does not conform with its own pre-established beliefs when such writing does not contain what the multitude hopes to find there. Therefore, some piece of writing which has a particular tendency is for the most part read only by those who are in sympathy with it. Only a leaflet or a placard, on account of its brevity, can hope to arouse a momentary interest in those whose opinions differ from it. The picture, in all its forms, including the film, has better prospects. Here there is less need of elaborating the appeal to the intelligence. It is sufficient if one be careful to have quite short texts, because many people are more ready to accept a pictorial presentation than to read a long written description. In a much shorter time, at one stroke I might say, people will understand a pictorial presentation of something which it would take them a long and laborious effort of reading to understand.
The most important consideration, however, is that one never knows into what hands a piece of written material comes and yet the form in which its subject is presented must remain the same. In general the effect is greater when the form of treatment corresponds to the mental level of the reader and suits his nature. Therefore, a book which is meant for the broad masses of the people must try from the very start to gain its effects through a style and level of ideas which would be quite different from a book intended to be read by the higher intellectual classes.
Only through his capacity for adaptability does the force of the written word approach that of oral speech. The orator may deal with the same subject as a book deals with; but if he has the genius of a great and popular orator he will scarcely ever repeat the same argument or the same material in the same form on two consecutive occasions. He will always follow the lead of the great mass in such a way that from the living emotion of his hearers the apt word which he needs will be suggested to him and in its turn this will go straight to the hearts of his hearers. Should he make even a slight mistake he has the living correction before him. As I have already said, he can read the play of expression on the faces of his hearers, first to see if they understand what he says, secondly to see if they take in the whole of his argument, and, thirdly, in how far they are convinced of the justice of what has been placed before them. Should he observe, first, that his hearers do not understand him he will make his explanation so elementary and clear that they will be able to grasp it, even to the last individual. Secondly, if he feels that they are not capable of following him he will make one idea follow another carefully and slowly until the most slow-witted hearer no longer lags behind. Thirdly, as soon as he has the feeling that they do not seem convinced that he is right in the way he has put things to them he will repeat his argument over and over again, always giving fresh illustrations, and he himself will state their unspoken objection. He will repeat these objections, dissecting them and refuting them, until the last group of the opposition show him by their behaviour and play of expression that they have capitulated before his exposition of the case.
Not infrequently it is a case of overcoming ingrained prejudices which are mostly unconscious and are supported by sentiment rather than reason. It is a thousand times more difficult to overcome this barrier of instinctive aversion, emotional hatred and preventive dissent than to correct opinions which are founded on defective or erroneous knowledge. False ideas and ignorance may be set aside by means of instruction, but emotional resistance never can. Nothing but an appeal to these hidden forces will be effective here. And that appeal can be made by scarcely any writer. Only the orator can hope to make it.
A very striking proof of this is found in the fact that, though we had a bourgeois Press which in many cases was well written and produced and had a circulation of millions among the people, it could not prevent the broad masses from becoming the implacable enemies of the bourgeois class. The deluge of papers and books published by the intellectual circles year after year passed over the millions of the lower social strata like water over glazed leather. This proves that one of two things must be true: either that the matter offered in the bourgeois Press was worthless or that it is impossible to reach the hearts of the broad masses by means of the written word alone. Of course, the latter would be specially true where the written material shows such little psychological insight as has hitherto been the case.
It is useless to object here, as certain big Berlin papers of German-National tendencies have attempted to do, that this statement is refuted by the fact that the Marxists have exercised their greatest influence through their writings, and especially through their principal book, published by Karl Marx. Seldom has a more superficial argument been based on a false assumption. What gave Marxism its amazing influence over the broad masses was not that formal printed work which sets forth the Jewish system of ideas, but the tremendous oral propaganda carried on for years among the masses. Out of one hundred thousand German workers scarcely one hundred know of Marx's book. It has been studied much more in intellectual circles and especially by the Jews than by the genuine followers of the movement who come from the lower classes. That work was not written for the masses, but exclusively for the intellectual leaders of the Jewish machine for conquering the world. The engine was heated with quite different stuff: namely, the journalistic Press. What differentiates the bourgeois Press from the Marxist Press is that the latter is written by agitators, whereas the bourgeois Press would like to carry on agitation by means of professional writers. The Social-Democrat sub-editor, who almost always came directly from the meeting to the editorial offices of his paper, felt his job on his finger-tips. But the bourgeois writer who left his desk to appear before the masses already felt ill when he smelled the very odour of the crowd and found that what he had written was useless to him.
What won over millions of workpeople to the Marxist cause was not the ex cathedra style of the Marxist writers but the formidable propagandist work done by tens of thousands of indefatigable agitators, commencing with the leading fiery agitator down to the smallest official in the syndicate, the trusted delegate and the platform orator. Furthermore, there were the hundreds of thousands of meetings where these orators, standing on tables in smoky taverns, hammered their ideas into the heads of the masses, thus acquiring an admirable psychological knowledge of the human material they had to deal with. And in this way they were enabled to select the best weapons for their assault on the citadel of public opinion. In addition to all this there were the gigantic mass-demonstrations with processions in which a hundred thousand men took part. All this was calculated to impress on the petty-hearted individual the proud conviction that, though a small worm, he was at the same time a cell of the great dragon before whose devastating breath the hated bourgeois world would one day be consumed in fire and flame, and the dictatorship of the proletariat would celebrate its conclusive victory.
This kind of propaganda influenced men in such a way as to give them a taste for reading the Social Democratic Press and prepare their minds for its teaching. That Press, in its turn, was a vehicle of the spoken word rather than of the written word. Whereas in the bourgeois camp professors and learned writers, theorists and authors of all kinds, made attempts at talking, in the Marxist camp real speakers often made attempts at writing. And it was precisely the Jew who was most prominent here. In general and because of his shrewd dialectical skill and his knack of twisting the truth to suit his own purposes, he was an effective writer but in reality his metier was that of a revolutionary orator rather than a writer.
For this reason the journalistic bourgeois world, setting aside the fact that here also the Jew held the whip hand and that therefore this press did not really interest itself in the instructtion of the broad masses, was not able to exercise even the least influence over the opinions held by the great masses of our people.
It is difficult to remove emotional prejudices, psychological bias, feelings, etc., and to put others in their place. Success depends here on imponderable conditions and influences. Only the orator who is gifted with the most sensitive insight can estimate all this. Even the time of day at which the speech is delivered has a decisive influence on its results. The same speech, made by the same orator and on the same theme, will have very different results according as it is delivered at ten o'clock in the forenoon, at three in the afternoon, or in the evening. When I first engaged in public speaking I arranged for meetings to take place in the forenoon and I remember particularly a demonstration that we held in the Munich Kindl Keller 'Against the Oppression of German Districts.' That was the biggest hall then in Munich and the audacity of our undertaking was great. In order to make the hour of the meeting attractive for all the members of our movement and the other people who might come, I fixed it for ten o'clock on a Sunday morning. The result was depressing. But it was very instructive. The hall was filled. The impression was profound, but the general feeling was cold as ice. Nobody got warmed up, and I myself, as the speaker of the occasion, felt profoundly unhappy at the thought that I could not establish the slightest contact with my audience. I do not think I spoke worse than before, but the effect seemed absolutely negative. I left the hall very discontented, but also feeling that I had gained a new experience. Later on I tried the same kind of experiment, but always with the same results.
That was nothing to be wondered at. If one goes to a theatre to see a matinee performance and then attends an evening performance of the same play one is astounded at the difference in the impressions created. A sensitive person recognizes for himself the fact that these two states of mind caused by the matinee and the evening performance respectively are quite different in themselves. The same is true of cinema productions. This latter point is important; for one may say of the theatre that perhaps in the afternoon the actor does not make the same effort as in the evening. But surely it cannot be said that the cinema is different in the afternoon from what it is at nine o'clock in the evening. No, here the time exercises a distinct influence, just as a room exercises a distinct influence on a person. There are rooms which leave one cold, for reasons which are difficult to explain. There are rooms which refuse steadfastly to allow any favourable atmosphere to be created in them. Moreover, certain memories and traditions which are present as pictures in the human mind may have a determining influence on the impression produced. Thus, a representation of Parsifal at Bayreuth will have an effect quite different from that which the same opera produces in any other part of the world. The mysterious charm of the House on the 'Festival Heights' in the old city of The Margrave cannot be equalled or substituted anywhere else.
In all these cases one deals with the problem of influencing the freedom of the human will. And that is true especially of meetings where there are men whose wills are opposed to the speaker and who must be brought around to a new way of thinking. In the morning and during the day it seems that the power of the human will rebels with its strongest energy against any attempt to impose upon it the will or opinion of another. On the other hand, in the evening it easily succumbs to the domination of a stronger will. Because really in such assemblies there is a contest between two opposite forces. The superior oratorical art of a man who has the compelling character of an apostle will succeed better in bringing around to a new way of thinking those who have naturally been subjected to a weakening of their forces of resistance rather than in converting those who are in full possession of their volitional and intellectual energies.
The mysterious artificial dimness of the Catholic churches also serves this purpose, the burning candles, the incense, the thurible, etc.
In this struggle between the orator and the opponent whom he must convert to his cause this marvellous sensibility towards the psychological influences of propaganda can hardly ever be availed of by an author. Generally speaking, the effect of the writer's work helps rather to conserve, reinforce and deepen the foundations of a mentality already existing. All really great historical revolutions were not produced by the written word. At most, they were accompanied by it.
It is out of the question to think that the French Revolution could have been carried into effect by philosophizing theories if they had not found an army of agitators led by demagogues of the grand style. These demagogues inflamed popular passion that had been already aroused, until that volcanic eruption finally broke out and convulsed the whole of Europe. And the same happened in the case of the gigantic Bolshevik revolution which recently took place in Russia. It was not due to the writers on Lenin's side but to the oratorical activities of those who preached the doctrine of hatred and that of the innumerable small and great orators who took part in the agitation.
The masses of illiterate Russians were not fired to Communist revolutionary enthusiasm by reading the theories of Karl Marx but by the promises of paradise made to the people by thousands of agitators in the service of an idea.
It was always so, and it will always be so.
It is just typical of our pig-headed intellectuals, who live apart from the practical world, to think that a writer must of necessity be superior to an orator in intelligence. This point of view was once exquisitely illustrated by a critique, published in a certain National paper which I have already mentioned, where it was stated that one is often disillusioned by reading the speech of an acknowledged great orator in print. That reminded me of another article which came into my hands during the War. It dealt with the speeches of Lloyd George, who was then Minister of Munitions, and examined them in a painstaking way under the microscope of criticism. The writer made the brilliant statement that these speeches showed inferior intelligence and learning and that, moreover, they were banal and commonplace productions. I myself procured some of these speeches, published in pamphlet form, and had to laugh at the fact that a normal German quill-driver did not in the least understand these psychological masterpieces in the art of influencing the masses. This man criticized these speeches exclusively according to the impression they made on his own blase mind, whereas the great British Demagogue had produced an immense effect on his audience through them, and in the widest sense on the whole of the British populace. Looked at from this point of view, that Englishman's speeches were most wonderful achievements, precisely because they showed an astounding knowledge of the soul of the broad masses of the people. For that reason their effect was really penetrating. Compare with them the futile stammerings of a Bethmann-Hollweg. On the surface his speeches were undoubtedly more intellectual, but they just proved this man's inability to speak to the people, which he really could not do. Nevertheless, to the average stupid brain of the German writer, who is, of course, endowed with a lot of scientific learning, it came quite natural to judge the speeches of the English Minister V which were made for the purpose of influencing the masses V by the impression which they made on his own mind, fossilized in its abstract learning. And it was more natural for him to compare them in the light of that impression with the brilliant but futile talk of the German statesman, which of course appealed to the writer's mind much more favourably. That the genius of Lloyd George was not only equal but a thousandfold superior to that of a Bethmann-Hollweg is proved by the fact that he found for his speeches that form and expression which opened the hearts of his people to him and made these people carry out his will absolutely. The primitive quality itself of those speeches, the originality of his expressions, his choice of clear and simple illustration, are examples which prove the superior political capacity of this Englishman. For one must never judge the speech of a statesman to his people by the impression which it leaves on the mind of a university professor but by the effect it produces on the people. And this is the sole criterion of the orator's genius.

The astonishing development of our movement, which was created from nothing a few years ago and is today singled out for persecution by all the internal and external enemies of our nation, must be attributed to the constant recognition and practical application of those principles.
Written matter also played an important part in our movement; but at the stage of which I am writing it served to give an equal and uniform education to the directors of the movement, in the upper as well as in the lower grades, rather than to convert the masses of our adversaries. It was only in very rare cases that a convinced and devoted Social Democrat or Communist was induced to acquire an understanding of our conception of life or to study a criticism of his own by procuring and reading one of our pamphlets or even one of our books. Even a newspaper is rarely read if it does not bear the stamp of a party affiliation. Moreover, the reading of newspapers helps little; because the general picture given by a single number of a newspaper is so confused and produces such a fragmentary impression that it really does not influence the occasional reader. And where a man has to count his pennies it cannot be assumed that, exclusively for the purpose of being objectively informed, he will become a regular reader or subscriber to a paper which opposes his views. Only one who has already joined a movement will regularly read the party organ of that movement, and especially for the purpose of keeping himself informed of what is happening in the movement.
It is quite different with the 'spoken' leaflet. Especially if it be distributed gratis it will be taken up by one person or another, all the more willingly if its display title refers to a question about which everybody is talking at the moment. Perhaps the reader, after having read through such a leaflet more or less thoughtfully, will have new viewpoints and mental attitudes and may give his attention to a new movement. But with these, even in the best of cases, only a small impulse will be given, but no definite conviction will be created; because the leaflet can do nothing more than draw attention to something and can become effective only by bringing the reader subsequently into a situation where he is more fundamentally informed and instructed. Such instruction must always be given at the mass assembly.
Mass assemblies are also necessary for the reason that, in attending them, the individual who felt himself formerly only on the point of joining the new movement, now begins to feel isolated and in fear of being left alone as he acquires for the first time the picture of a great community which has a strengthening and encouraging effect on most people. Brigaded in a company or battalion, surrounded by his companions, he will march with a lighter heart to the attack than if he had to march alone. In the crowd he feels himself in some way thus sheltered, though in reality there are a thousand arguments against such a feeling.
Mass demonstrations on the grand scale not only reinforce the will of the individual but they draw him still closer to the movement and help to create an esprit de corps. The man who appears first as the representative of a new doctrine in his place of business or in his factory is bound to feel himself embarrassed and has need of that reinforcement which comes from the consciousness that he is a member of a great community. And only a mass demonstration can impress upon him the greatness of this community. If, on leaving the shop or mammoth factory, in which he feels very small indeed, he should enter a vast assembly for the first time and see around him thousands and thousands of men who hold the same opinions; if, while still seeking his way, he is gripped by the force of mass-suggestion which comes from the excitement and enthusiasm of three or four thousand other men in whose midst he finds himself; if the manifest success and the concensus of thousands confirm the truth and justice of the new teaching and for the first time raise doubt in his mind as to the truth of the opinions held by himself up to now V then he submits himself to the fascination of what we call mass-suggestion. The will, the yearning and indeed the strength of thousands of people are in each individual. A man who enters such a meeting in doubt and hesitation leaves it inwardly fortified; he has become a member of a community.
The National Socialist Movement should never forget this, and it should never allow itself to be influenced by these bourgeois duffers who think they know everything but who have foolishly gambled away a great State, together with their own existence and the supremacy of their own class. They are overflowing with ability; they can do everything, and they know everything. But there is one thing they have not known how to do, and that is how to save the German people from falling into the arms of Marxism. In that they have shown themselves most pitiably and miserably impotent. So that the present opinion they have of themselves is only equal to their conceit. Their pride and stupidity are fruits of the same tree.
If these people try to disparage the importance of the spoken word today, they do it only because they realize V God be praised and thanked V how futile all their own speechifying has been.

----------

[Previous Chapter (Philosophy and Organization)] [Home] [Next Chapter (The Struggle with the Red Front)]
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter VII Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter VII: The Struggle with the Red Front

In 1919-20 and also in 1921 I attended some of the bourgeois meetings. Invariably I had the same feeling towards these as towards the compulsory dose of castor oil in my boyhood days. It just had to be taken because it was good for one: but it certainly tasted unpleasant. If it were possible to tie ropes round the German people and forcibly drag them to these bourgeois meetings, keeping them there behind barred doors and allowing nobody to escape until the meeting closed, then this procedure might prove successful in the course of a few hundred years. For my own part, I must frankly admit that, under such circumstances, I could not find life worth living; and indeed I should no longer wish to be a German. But, thank God, all this is impossible. And so it is not surprising that the sane and unspoilt masses shun these 'bourgeois mass meetings' as the devil shuns holy water.
I came to know the prophets of the bourgeois philosophy, and I was not surprised at what I learned, as I knew that they attached little importance to the spoken word. At that time I attended meetings of the Democrats, the German Nationalists, the German People's Party and the Bavarian People's Party (the Centre Party of Bavaria). What struck me at once was the homogeneous uniformity of the audiences. Nearly always they were made up exclusively of party members. The whole affair was more like a yawning card party than an assembly of people who had just passed through a great revolution. The speakers did all they could to maintain this tranquil atmosphere. They declaimed, or rather read out, their speeches in the style of an intellectual newspaper article or a learned treatise, avoiding all striking expressions. Here and there a feeble professorial joke would be introduced, whereupon the people sitting at the speaker's table felt themselves obliged to laugh V not loudly but encouragingly and with well-bred reserve.
And there were always those people at the speaker's table. I once attended a meeting in the Wagner Hall in Munich. It was a demonstration to celebrate the anniversary of the Battle of Leipzig. The speech was delivered or rather read out by a venerable old professor from one or other of the universities. The committee sat on the platform: one monocle on the right, another monocle on the left, and in the centre a gentleman with no monocle. All three of them were punctiliously attired in morning coats, and I had the impression of being present before a judge's bench just as the death sentence was about to be pronounced or at a christening or some more solemn religious ceremony. The so-called speech, which in printed form may have read quite well, had a disastrous effect. After three quarters of an hour the audience fell into a sort of hypnotic trance, which was interrupted only when some man or woman left the hall, or by the clatter which the waitresses made, or by the increasing yawns of slumbering individuals. I had posted myself behind three workmen who were present either out of curiosity or because they were sent there by their parties. From time to time they glanced at one another with an ill-concealed grin, nudged one another with the elbow, and then silently left the hall. One could see that they had no intention whatsoever of interrupting the proceedings, nor indeed was it necessary to interrupt them. At long last the celebration showed signs of drawing to a close. After the professor, whose voice had meanwhile become more and more inaudible, finally ended his speech, the gentleman without the monocle delivered a rousing peroration to the assembled 'German sisters and brothers.' On behalf of the audience and himself he expressed gratitude for the magnificent lecture which they had just heard from Professor X and emphasized how deeply the Professor's words had moved them all. If a general discussion on the lecture were to take place it would be tantamount to profanity, and he thought he was voicing the opinion of all present in suggesting that such a discussion should not be held. Therefore, he would ask the assembly to rise from their seats and join in singing the patriotic song, Wir sind ein einig Volk von Brudern. The proceedings finally closed with the anthem, Deutschland uber Alles.
And then they all sang. It appeared to me that when the second verse was reached the voices were fewer and that only when the refrain came on they swelled loudly. When we reached the third verse my belief was confirmed that a good many of those present were not very familiar with the text.
But what has all this to do with the matter when such a song is sung wholeheartedly and fervidly by an assembly of German nationals?
After this the meeting broke up and everyone hurried to get outside, one to his glass of beer, one to a cafe, and others simply into the fresh air.
Out into the fresh air! That was also my feeling. And was this the way to honour an heroic struggle in which hundreds of thousands of Prussians and Germans had fought? To the devil with it all!
That sort of thing might find favour with the Government, it being merely a 'peaceful' meeting. The Minister responsible for law and order need not fear that enthusiasm might suddenly get the better of public decorum and induce these people to pour out of the room and, instead of dispersing to beer halls and cafes, march in rows of four through the town singing Deutschland hoch in Ehren and causing some unpleasantness to a police force in need of rest.
No. That type of citizen is of no use to anyone.

On the other hand the National Socialist meetings were by no means 'peaceable' affairs. Two distinct outlooks enraged in bitter opposition to one another, and these meetings did not close with the mechanical rendering of a dull patriotic song but rather with a passionate outbreak of popular national feeling.
It was imperative from the start to introduce rigid discipline into our meetings and establish the authority of the chairman absolutely. Our purpose was not to pour out a mixture of soft-soap bourgeois talk; what we had to say was meant to arouse the opponents at our meetings! How often did they not turn up in masses with a few individual agitators among them and, judging by the expression on all their faces, ready to finish us off there and then.
Yes, how often did they not turn up in huge numbers, those supporters of the Red Flag, all previously instructed to smash up everything once and for all and put an end to these meetings. More often than not everything hung on a mere thread, and only the chairman's ruthless determination and the rough handling by our ushers baffled our adversaries' intentions. And indeed they had every reason for being irritated.
The fact that we had chosen red as the colour for our posters sufficed to attract them to our meetings. The ordinary bourgeoisie were very shocked to see that, we had also chosen the symbolic red of Bolshevism and they regarded this as something ambiguously significant. The suspicion was whispered in German Nationalist circles that we also were merely another variety of Marxism, perhaps even Marxists suitably disguised, or better still, Socialists. The actual difference between Socialism and Marxism still remains a mystery to these people up to this day. The charge of Marxism was conclusively proved when it was discovered that at our meetings we deliberately substituted the words 'Fellow-countrymen and Women' for 'Ladies and Gentlemen' and addressed each other as 'Party Comrade'. We used to roar with laughter at these silly faint-hearted bourgeoisie and their efforts to puzzle out our origin, our intentions and our aims.
We chose red for our posters after particular and careful deliberation, our intention being to irritate the Left, so as to arouse their attention and tempt them to come to our meetings V if only in order to break them up V so that in this way we got a chance of talking to the people.
In those years' it was indeed a delightful experience to follow the constantly changing tactics of our perplexed and helpless adversaries. First of all they appealed to their followers to ignore us and keep away from our meetings. Generally speaking this appeal was heeded. But, as time went on, more and more of their followers gradually found their way to us and accepted our teaching. Then the leaders became nervous and uneasy. They clung to their belief that such a development should not be ignored for ever, and that terror must be applied in order to put an end to it.
Appeals were then made to the 'class-conscious proletariat' to attend our meetings in masses and strike with the clenched hand of the proletarian at the representatives of a 'monarchist and reactionary agitation'.
Our meetings suddenly became packed with work-people fully three-quarters of an hour before the proceedings were scheduled to begin. These gatherings resembled a powder cask ready to explode at any moment; and the fuse was conveniently at hand. But matters always turned out differently. People came as enemies and left, not perhaps prepared to join us, yet in a reflective mood and disposed critically to examine the correctness of their own doctrine. Gradually as time went on my three-hour lectures resulted in supporters and opponents becoming united in one single enthusiastic group of people. Every signal for the breaking-up of the meeting failed. The result was that the opposition leaders became frightened and once again looked for help to those quarters that had formerly discountenanced these tactics and, with some show of right, had been of the opinion that on principle the workers should be forbidden to attend our meetings.
Then they did not come any more, or only in small numbers. But after a short time the whole game started all over again. The instructions to keep away from us were ignored; the comrades came in steadily increasing numbers, until finally the advocates of the radical tactics won the day. We were to be broken up.
Yet when, after two, three and even eight meetings, it was realized that to break up these gatherings was easier said than done and that every meeting resulted in a decisive weakening of the red fighting forces, then suddenly the other password was introduced: 'Proletarians, comrades and comradesses, avoid meetings of the National Socialist agitators'.
The same eternally alternating tactics were also to be observed in the Red Press. Soon they tried to silence us but discovered the uselessness of such an attempt. After that they swung round to the opposite tactics. Daily 'reference' was made to us solely for the purpose of absolutely ridiculing us in the eyes of the working-classes. After a time these gentlemen must have felt that no harm was being done to us, but that, on the contrary, we were reaping an advantage in that people were asking themselves why so much space was being devoted to a subject which was supposed to be so ludicrous. People became curious. Suddenly there was a change of tactics and for a time we were treated as veritable criminals against mankind. One article followed the other, in which our criminal intentions were explained and new proofs brought forward to support what was said. Scandalous tales, all of them fabricated from start to finish, were published in order to help to poison the public mind. But in a short time even these attacks also proved futile; and in fact they assisted materially because they attracted public attention to us.
In those days I took up the standpoint that it was immaterial whether they laughed at us or reviled us, whether they depicted us as fools or criminals; the important point was that they took notice of us and that in the eyes of the working-classes we came to be regarded as the only force capable of putting up a fight. I said to myself that the followers of the Jewish Press would come to know all about us and our real aims.
One reason why they never got so far as breaking up our meetings was undoubtedly the incredible cowardice displayed by the leaders of the opposition. On every critical occasion they left the dirty work to the smaller fry whilst they waited outside the halls for the results of the break up.
We were exceptionally well informed in regard to our opponents' intentions, not only because we allowed several of our party colleagues to remain members of the Red organizations for reasons of expediency, but also because the Red wire-pullers, fortunately for us, were afflicted with a degree of talkativeness that is still unfortunately very prevalent among Germans. They could not keep their own counsel, and more often than not they started cackling before the proverbial egg was laid. Hence, time and again our precautions were such that Red agitators had no inkling of how near they were to being thrown out of the meetings.
This state of affairs compelled us to take the work of safeguarding our meetings into our own hands. No reliance could be placed on official protection. On the contrary; experience showed that such protection always favoured only the disturbers. The only real outcome of police intervention would be that the meeting would be dissolved, that is to say, closed. And that is precisely what our opponents granted.
Generally speaking, this led the police to adopt a procedure which, to say the least, was a most infamous sample of official malpractice. The moment they received information of a threat that the one or other meeting was to be broken up, instead of arresting the would-be disturbers, they promptly advised the innocent parties that the meeting was forbidden. This step the police proclaimed as a 'precautionary measure in the interests of law and order'.
The political work and activities of decent people could therefore always be hindered by desperate ruffians who had the means at their disposal. In the name of peace and order State authority bowed down to these ruffians and demanded that others should not provoke them. When National Socialism desired to hold meetings in certain parts and the labour unions declared that their members would resist, then it was not these blackmailers that were arrested and gaoled. No. Our meetings were forbidden by the police. Yes, this organ of the law had the unspeakable impudence to advise us in writing to this effect in innumerable instances. To avoid such eventualities, it was necessary to see to it that every attempt to disturb a meeting was nipped in the bud. Another feature to be taken into account in this respect is that all meetings which rely on police protection must necessarily bring discredit to their promoters in the eyes of the general public. Meetings that are only possible with the protective assistance of a strong force of police convert nobody; because in order to win over the lower strata of the people there must be a visible show of strength on one's own side. In the same way that a man of courage will win a woman's affection more easily than a coward, so a heroic movement will be more successful in winning over the hearts of a people than a weak movement which relies on police support for its very existence.
It is for this latter reason in particular that our young movement was to be charged with the responsibility of assuring its own existence, defending itself; and conducting its own work of smashing the Red opposition.
The work of organizing the protective measures for our meetings was based on the following:
(1) An energetic and psychologically judicious way of conducting the meeting.
(2) An organized squad of troops to maintain order.
In those days we and no one else were masters of the situation at our meetings and on no occasion did we fail to emphasize this. Our opponents fully realized that any provocation would be the occasion of throwing them out of the hall at once, whatever the odds against us. At meetings, particularly outside Munich, we had in those days from five to eight hundred opponents against fifteen to sixteen National Socialists; yet we brooked no interference, for we were ready to be killed rather than capitulate. More than once a handful of party colleagues offered a heroic resistance to a raging and violent mob of Reds. Those fifteen or twenty men would certainly have been overwhelmed in the end had not the opponents known that three or four times as many of themselves would first get their skulls cracked. Arid that risk they were not willing to run. We had done our best to study Marxist and bourgeois methods of conducting meetings, and we had certainly learnt something.
The Marxists had always exercised a most rigid discipline so that the question of breaking up their meetings could never have originated in bourgeois quarters. This gave the Reds all the more reason for acting on this plan. In time they not only became past-masters in this art but in certain large districts of the Reich they went so far as to declare that non-Marxist meetings were nothing less than a cause of' provocation against the proletariat. This was particularly the case when the wire-pullers suspected that a meeting might call attention to their own transgressions and thus expose their own treachery and chicanery. Therefore the moment such a meeting was announced to be held a howl of rage went up from the Red Press. These detractors of the law nearly always turned first to the authorities and requested in imperative and threatening language that this 'provocation of the proletariat' be stopped forthwith in the 'interests of law and order'. Their language was chosen according to the importance of the official blockhead they were dealing with and thus success was assured. If by chance the official happened to be a true German V and not a mere figurehead V and he declined the impudent request, then the time-honoured appeal to stop 'provocation of the proletariat' was issued together with instructions to attend such and such a meeting on a certain date in full strength for the purpose of 'putting a stop to the disgraceful machinations of the bourgeoisie by means of the proletarian fist'.
The pitiful and frightened manner in which these bourgeois meetings are conducted must be seen in order to be believed. Very frequently these threats were sufficient to call off such a meeting at once. The feeling of fear was so marked that the meeting, instead of commencing at eight o'clock, very seldom was opened before a quarter to nine or nine o'clock. The Chairman thereupon did his best, by showering compliments on the 'gentleman of the opposition' to prove how he and all others present were pleased (a palpable lie) to welcome a visit from men who as yet were not in sympathy with them for the reason that only by mutual discussion (immediately agreed to) could they be brought closer together in mutual understanding. Apart from this the Chairman also assured them that the meeting had no intention whatsoever of interfering with the professed convictions of anybody. Indeed no. Everyone had the right to form and hold his own political views, but others should be allowed to do likewise. He therefore requested that the speaker be allowed to deliver his speech without interruption V the speech in any case not being a long affair. People abroad, he continued, would thus not come to regard this meeting as another shameful example of the bitter fraternal strife that is raging in Germany. And so on and so forth
The brothers of the Left had little if any appreciation for that sort of talk; the speaker had hardly commenced when he was shouted down. One gathered the impression at times that these speakers were graceful for being peremptorily cut short in their martyr-like discourse. These bourgeois toreadors left the arena in the midst of a vast uproar, that is to say, provided that they were not thrown down the stairs with cracked skulls, which was very often the case.
Therefore, our methods of organization at National Socialist meetings were something quite strange to the Marxists. They came to our meetings in the belief that the little game which they had so often played could as a matter of course be also repeated on us. "To-day we shall finish them off." How often did they bawl this out to each other on entering the meeting hall, only to be thrown out with lightning speed before they had time to repeat it.
In the first place our method of conducting a meeting was entirely different. We did not beg and pray to be allowed to speak, and we did not straightway give everybody the right to hold endless discussions. We curtly gave everyone to understand that we were masters of the meeting and that we would do as it pleased us and that everyone who dared to interrupt would be unceremoniously thrown out. We stated clearly our refusal to accept responsibility for anyone treated in this manner. If time permitted and if it suited us, a discussion would be allowed to take place. Our party colleague would now make his speech.... That kind of talk was sufficient in itself to astonish the Marxists.
Secondly, we had at our disposal a well-trained and organized body of men for maintaining order at our meetings. On the other hand the bourgeois parties protected their meetings with a body of men better classified as ushers who by virtue of their age thought they were entitled to-authority and respect. But as Marxism has little or no respect for these things, the question of suitable self-protection at these bourgeois meetings was, so to speak, in practice non-existent.
When our political meetings first started I made it a special point to organize a suitable defensive squad V a squad composed chiefly of young men. Some of them were comrades who had seen active service with me; others were young party members who, right from the start, had been trained and brought up to realize that only terror is capable of smashing terror V that only courageous and determined people had made a success of things in this world and that, finally, we were fighting for an idea so lofty that it was worth the last drop of our blood. These young men had been brought up to realize that where force replaced common sense in the solution of a problem, the best means of defence was attack and that the reputation of our hall-guard squads should stamp us as a political fighting force and not as a debating society.
And it was extraordinary how eagerly these boys of the War generation responded to this order. They had indeed good reason for being bitterly disappointed and indignant at the miserable milksop methods employed by the bourgeoise.
Thus it became clear to everyone that the Revolution had only been possible thanks to the dastardly methods of a bourgeois government. At that time there was certainly no lack of man-power to suppress the revolution, but unfortunately there was an entire lack of directive brain power. How often did the eyes of my young men light up with enthusiasm when I explained to them the vital functions connected with their task and assured them time and again that all earthly wisdom is useless unless it be supported by a measure of strength, that the gentle goddess of Peace can only walk in company with the god of War, and that every great act of peace must be protected and assisted by force. In this way the idea of military service came to them in a far more realistic form V not in the fossilized sense of the souls of decrepit officials serving the dead authority of a dead State, but in the living realization of the duty of each man to sacrifice his life at all times so that his country might live.
How those young men did their job!
Like a swarm of hornets they tackled disturbers at our meetings, regardless of superiority of numbers, however great, indifferent to wounds and bloodshed, inspired with the great idea of blazing a trail for the sacred mission of our movement.
As early as the summer of 1920 the organization of squads of men as hall guards for maintaining order at our meetings was gradually assuming definite shape. By the spring of 1921 this body of men were sectioned off into squads of one hundred, which in turn were sub-divided into smaller groups.
The urgency for this was apparent, as meanwhile the number of our meetings had steadily increased. We still frequently met in the Munich Hofbrauhaus but more frequently in the large meeting halls throughout the city itself. In the autumn and winter of 1920V1921 our meetings in the Burgerbrau and Munich Kindlbrau had assumed vast proportions and it was always the same picture that presented itself; namely, meetings of the NSDAP (The German National Socialist Labour Party) were always crowded out so that the police were compelled to close and bar the doors long before proceedings commenced.

The organization of defense guards for keeping order at our meetings cleared up a very difficult question. Up till then the movement had possessed no party badge and no party flag. The lack of these tokens was not only a disadvantage at that time but would prove intolerable in the future. The disadvantages were chiefly that members of the party possessed no outward broken of membership which linked them together, and it was absolutely unthinkable that for the future they should remain without some token which would be a symbol of the movement and could be set against that of the International.
More than once in my youth the psychological importance of such a symbol had become clearly evident to me and from a sentimental point of view also it was advisable. In Berlin, after the War, I was present at a mass-demonstration of Marxists in front of the Royal Palace and in the Lustgarten. A sea of red flags, red armlets and red flowers was in itself sufficient to give that huge assembly of about 120,000 persons an outward appearance of strength. I was now able to feel and understand how easily the man in the street succumbs to the hypnotic magic of such a grandiose piece of theatrical presentation.
The bourgeoisie, which as a party neither possesses or stands for any outlook at all, had therefore not a single banner. Their party was composed of 'patriots' who went about in the colours of the Reich. If these colors were the symbol of a definite philosophy then one could understand the rulers of the State regarding this flag as expressive of their philosophy, seeing that through their efforts the official Reich flag was expressive of their philosophy.
But in reality the position was otherwise.
The Reich was morticed together without the aid of the German bourgeoisie and the flag itself was born of the War and therefore merely a State flag possessing no importance in the sense of any particular ideological mission.
Only in one part of the German-speaking territory V in German-Austria V was there anything like a bourgeois party flag in evidence. Here a section of the national bourgeoisie selected the 1848 colours (black, red and gold) as their party flag and therewith created a symbol which, though of no importance from a weltanschauliche viewpoint, had, nevertheless, a revolutionary character from a national point of view. The most bitter opponents of this flag at that time, and this should not be forgotten today, were the Social Democrats and the Christian Socialists or clericals. They, in particular, were the ones who degraded and besmirched these colours in the same way as in 1918 they dragged black, white and red into the gutter. Of course, the black, red and gold of the German parties in the old Austria were the colours of the year 1848: that is to say, of a period likely to be regarded as somewhat visionary, but it was a period that had honest German souls as its representatives, although the Jews were lurking unseen as wire-pullers in the background. It was high treason and the shameful enslavement of the German territory that first of all made these colours so attractive to the Marxists of the Centre Party; so much so that today they revere them as their most cherished possession and use them as their own banners for the protection of the flag they once foully besmirched.
It is a fact, therefore, that, up till 1920, in opposition to the Marxists there was no flag that would have stood for a consolidated resistance to them. For even if the better political elements of the German bourgeoisie were loath to accept the suddenly discovered black, red and gold colours as their symbol after the year 1918, they nevertheless were incapable of counteracting this with a future programme of their own that would correspond to the new trend of affairs. At the most, they had a reconstruction of the old Reich in mind.
And it is to this way of thinking that the black, white and red colours of the old Reich are indebted for their resurrection as the flag of our so-called national bourgeois parties.
It was obvious that the symbol of a regime which had been overthrown by the Marxists under inglorious circumstances was not now worthy to serve as a banner under which the same Marxism was to be crushed in its turn. However much any decent German may love and revere those old colours, glorious when placed side by side in their youthful freshness, when he had fought under them and seen the sacrifice of so many lives, that flag had little value for the struggle of the future.
In our Movement I have always adopted the standpoint that it was a really lucky thing for the German nation that it had lost its old flag. This standpoint of mine was in strong contrast to that of the bourgeois politicians. It may be immaterial to us what the Republic does under its flag. But let us be deeply grateful to fate for having so graciously spared the most glorious war flag for all time from becoming an ignominious rag. The Reich of today, which sells itself and its people, must never be allowed to adopt the honourable and heroic black, white and red colours.
As long as the November outrage endures, that outrage may continue to bear its own external sign and not steal that of an honourable past. Our bourgeois politicians should awaken their consciences to the fact that whoever desires this State to have the black, white and red colours is pilfering from the past. The old flag was suitable only for the old Reich and, thank Heaven, the Republic chose the colours best suited to itself.
This was also the reason why we National Socialists recognized that hoisting the old colours would be no symbol of our special aims; for we had no wish to resurrect from the dead the old Reich which had been ruined through its own blunders, but to build up a new State.
The Movement which is fighting Marxism today along these lines must display on its banner the symbol of the new State.
The question of the new flag, that is to say the form and appearance it must take, kept us very busy in those days. Suggestions poured in from all quarters, which although well meant were more or less impossible in practice. The new flag had not only to become a symbol expressing our own struggle but on the other hand it was necessary that it should prove effective as a large poster. All those who busy themselves with the tastes of the public will recognize and appreciate the great importance of these apparently petty matters. In hundreds of thousands of cases a really striking emblem may be the first cause of awakening interest in a movement.
For this reason we declined all suggestions from various quarters for identifying our movement by means of a white flag with the old State or rather with those decrepit parties whose sole political objective is the restoration of past conditions. And, apart from this, white is not a colour capable of attracting and focusing public attention. It is a colour suitable only for young women's associations and not for a movement that stands for reform in a revolutionary period.
Black was also suggested V certainly well-suited to the times, but embodying no significance to empress the will behind our movement. And, finally, black is incapable of attracting attention.
White and blue was discarded, despite its admirable asthetic appeal V as being the colours of an individual German Federal State V a State that, unfortunately, through its political attitude of particularist narrow-mindedness did not enjoy a good reputation. And, generally speaking, with these colours it would have been difficult to attract attention to our movement. The same applies to black and white.
Black, red and gold did not enter the question at all.
And this also applies to black, white and red for reasons already stated. At least, not in the form hitherto in use. But the effectiveness of these three colours is far superior to all the others and they are certainly the most strikingly harmonious combination to be found.
I myself was always for keeping the old colours, not only because I, as a soldier, regarded them as my most sacred possession, but because in their aesthetic effect, they conformed more than anything else to my personal taste. Accordingly I had to discard all the innumerable suggestions and designs which had been proposed for the new movement, among which were many that had incorporated the swastika into the old colours. I, as leader, was unwilling to make public my own design, as it was possible that someone else could come forward with a design just as good, if not better, than my own. As a matter of fact, a dental surgeon from Starnberg submitted a good design very similar to mine, with only one mistake, in that his swastika with curved corners was set upon a white background.
After innumerable trials I decided upon a final form V a flag of red material with a white disc bearing in its centre a black swastika. After many trials I obtained the correct proportions between the dimensions of the flag and of the white central disc, as well as that of the swastika. And this is how it has remained ever since.
At the same time we immediately ordered the corresponding armlets for our squad of men who kept order at meetings, armlets of red material, a central white disc with the black swastika upon it. Herr Fuss, a Munich goldsmith, supplied the first practical and permanent design.
The new flag appeared in public in the midsummer of 1920. It suited our movement admirably, both being new and young. Not a soul had seen this flag before; its effect at that time was something akin to that of a blazing torch. We ourselves experienced almost a boyish delight when one of the ladies of the party who had been entrusted with the making of the flag finally handed it over to us. And a few months later those of us in Munich were in possession of six of these flags. The steadily increasing strength of our hall guards was a main factor in popularizing the symbol.
And indeed a symbol it proved to be.
Not only because it incorporated those revered colours expressive of our homage to the glorious past and which once brought so much honour to the German nation, but this symbol was also an eloquent expression of the will behind the movement. We National Socialists regarded our flag as being the embodiment of our party programme. The red expressed the social thought underlying the movement. White the national thought. And the swastika signified the mission allotted to us V the struggle for the victory of Aryan mankind and at the same time the triumph of the ideal of creative work which is in itself and always will be anti-Semitic.
Two years later, when our squad of hall guards had long since grown into storm detachments (Sturm-Abteilung), it seemed necessary to give this defensive organization of a young philosophy a particular symbol of victory, namely a Standard. I also designed this and entrusted the execution of it to an old party comrade, Herr Gahr, who was a goldsmith. Ever since that time this Standard has been the distinctive token of the National Socialist struggle.

The increasing interest taken in our meetings, particularly during 1920, compelled us at times to hold two meetings a week. Crowds gathered round our posters; the large meeting halls in the town were always filled and tens of thousands of people, who had been led astray by the teachings of Marxism, found their way to us and assisted in the work of fighting for the liberation of the Reich. The public in Munich had got to know us. We were being spoken about. The words 'National Socialist' had become common property to many and signified for them a definite party programme. Our circle of supporters and even of members was constantly increasing, so that in the winter of 1920V21 we were able to appear as a strong party in Munich.
At that time there was no party in Munich with the exception of the Marxist parties V certainly no nationalist party V which was able to hold such mass demonstrations as ours. The Munich Kindl Hall, which held 5,000 people, was more than once overcrowded and up till then there was only one other hall, the Krone Circus Hall, into which we had not ventured.
At the end of January 1921 there was again great cause for anxiety in Germany. The Paris Agreement, by which Germany pledged herself to pay the crazy sum of a hundred milliards of gold marks, was to be confirmed by the London Ultimatum.
Thereupon an old-established Munich working committee, representative of so-called volkisch groups, deemed it advisable to call for a public meeting of protest. I became nervous and restless when I saw that a lot of time was being wasted and nothing undertaken. At first a meeting was suggested in the Konig Platz; on second thoughts this was turned down, as someone feared the proceedings might be wrecked by Red elements. Another suggestion was a demonstration in front of the Feldherrn Hall, but this also came to nothing. Finally a combined meeting in the Munich Kindl Hall was suggested. Meanwhile, day after day had gone by; the big parties had entirely ignored the terrible event, and the working committee could not decide on a definite date for holding the demonstration.
On Tuesday, February 1st, I put forward an urgent demand for a final decision. I was put off until Wednesday. On that day I demanded to be told clearly if and when the meeting was to take place. The reply was again uncertain and evasive, it being stated that it was 'intended' to arrange a demonstration that day week.
At that I lost all patience and decided to conduct a demonstration of protest on my own. At noon on Wednesday I dictated in ten minutes the text of the poster and at the same time hired the Krone Circus Hall for the next day, February 3rd.
In those days this was a tremendous venture. Not only because of the uncertainty of filling that vast hall, but also because of the risk of the meeting being wrecked.
Numerically our squad of hall guards was not strong enough for this vast hall. I was also uncertain about what to do in case the meeting was broken up V a huge circus building being a different proposition from an ordinary meeting hall. But events showed that my fears were misplaced, the opposite being the case. In that vast building a squad of wreckers could be tackled and subdued more easily than in a cramped hall.
One thing was certain: A failure would throw us back for a long time to come. If one meeting was wrecked our prestige would be seriously injured and our opponents would be encouraged to repeat their success. That would lead to sabotage of our work in connection with further meetings and months of difficult struggle would be necessary to overcome this.
We had only one day in which to post our bills, Thursday. Unfortunately it rained on the morning of that day and there was reason to fear that many people would prefer to remain at home rather than hurry to a meeting through rain and snow, especially when there was likely to be violence and bloodshed.
And indeed on that Thursday morning I was suddenly struck with fear that the hall might never be filled to capacity, which would have made me ridiculous in the eyes of the working committee. I therefore immediately dictated various leaflets, had them printed and distributed in the afternoon. Of course they contained an invitation to attend the meeting.
Two lorries which I hired were draped as much as possible in red, each had our new flag hoisted on it and was then filled with fifteen or twenty members of our party. Orders were given the members to canvas the streets thoroughly, distribute leaflets and conduct propaganda for the mass meeting to be held that evening. It was the first time that lorries had driven through the streets bearing flags and not manned by Marxists. The public stared open-mouthed at these red-draped cars, and in the outlying districts clenched fists were angrily raised at this new evidence of 'provocation of the proletariat'. Were not the Marxists the only ones entitled to hold meetings and drive about in motor lorries?
At seven o'clock in the evening only a few had gathered in the circus hall. I was being kept informed by telephone every ten minutes and was becoming uneasy. Usually at seven or a quarter past our meeting halls were already half filled; sometimes even packed. But I soon found out the reason why I was uneasy. I had entirely forgotten to take into account the huge dimensions of this new meeting place. A thousand people in the Hofbrauhaus was quite an impressive sight, but the same number in the Circus building was swallowed up in its dimensions and was hardly noticeable. Shortly afterwards I received more hopeful reports and at a quarter to eight I was informed that the hall was three-quarters filled, with huge crowds still lined up at the pay boxes. I then left for the meeting.
I arrived at the Circus building at two minutes past eight. There was still a crowd of people outside, partly inquisitive people and many opponents who preferred to wait outside for developments.
When I entered the great hall I felt the same joy I had felt a year previously at the first meeting in the Munich Hofbrau Banquet Hall; but it was not until I had forced my way through the solid wall of people and reached the platform that I perceived the full measure of our success. The hall was before me, like a huge shell, packed with thousands and thousands of people. Even the arena was densely crowded. More than 5,600 tickets had been sold and, allowing for the unemployed, poor students and our own detachments of men for keeping order, a crowd of about 6,500 must have been present.
My theme was 'Future or Downfall' and I was filled with joy at the conviction that the future was represented by the crowds that I was addressing.
I began, and spoke for about two and a half hours. I had the feeling after the first half-hour that the meeting was going to be a big success. Contact had been at once established with all those thousands of individuals. After the first hour the speech was already being received by spontaneous outbreaks of applause, but after the second hour this died down to a solemn stillness which I was to experience so often later on in this same hall, and which will for ever be remembered by all those present. Nothing broke this impressive silence and only when the last word had been spoken did the meeting give vent to its feelings by singing the national anthem.
I watched the scene during the next twenty minutes, as the vast hall slowly emptied itself, and only then did I leave the platform, a happy man, and made my way home.
Photographs were taken of this first meeting in the Krone Circus Hall in Munich. They are more eloquent than words to demonstrate the success of this demonstration. The bourgeois papers reproduced photographs and reported the meeting as having been merely 'nationalist' in character; in their usual modest fashion they omitted all mention of its promoters.
Thus for the first time we had developed far beyond the dimensions of an ordinary party. We could no longer be ignored. And to dispel all doubt that the meeting was merely an isolated success, I immediately arranged for another at the Circus Hall in the following week, and again we had the same success. Once more the vast hall was overflowing with people; so much so that I decided to hold a third meeting during the following week, which also proved a similar success.
After these initial successes early in 1921 I increased our activity in Munich still further. I not only held meetings once a week, but during some weeks even two were regularly held and very often during midsummer and autumn this increased to three. We met regularly at the Circus Hall and it gave us great satisfaction to see that every meeting brought us the same measure of success.
The result was shown in an ever-increasing number of supporters and members into our party.

Naturally, such success did not allow our opponents to sleep soundly. At first their tactics fluctuated between the use of terror and silence in our regard. Then they recognized that neither terror nor silence could hinder the progress of our movement. So they had recourse to a supreme act of terror which was intended to put a definite end to our activities in the holding of meetings.
As a pretext for action along this line they availed themselves of a very mysterious attack on one of the Landtag deputies, named Erhard Auer. It was declared that someone had fired several shots at this man one evening. This meant that he was not shot but that an attempt had been made to shoot him. A fabulous presence of mind and heroic courage on the part of Social Democratic leaders not only prevented the sacrilegious intention from taking effect but also put the crazy would-be assassins to flight, like the cowards that they were. They were so quick and fled so far that subsequently the police could not find even the slightest traces of them. This mysterious episode was used by the organ of the Social Democratic Party to arouse public feeling against the movement, and while doing this it delivered its old rigmarole about the tactics that were to be employed the next time. Their purpose was to see to it that our movement should not grow but should be immediately hewn down root and branch by the hefty arm of the proletariat.
A few days later the real attack came. It was decided finally to interrupt one of our meetings which was billed to take place in the Munich Hofbrauhaus, and at which I myself was to speak.
On November 4th, 1921, in the evening between six and seven o'clock I received the first precise news that the meeting would positively be broken up and that to carry out this action our adversaries had decided to send to the meeting great masses of workmen employed in certain 'Red' factories.
It was due to an unfortunate accident that we did not receive this news sooner. On that day we had given up our old business office in the Sternecker Gasse in Munich and moved into other quarters; or rather we had given up the old offices and our new quarters were not yet in functioning order. The telephone arrangements had been cut off by the former tenants and had not yet been reinstalled. Hence it happened that several attempts made that day to inform us by telephone of the break-up which had been planned for the evening did not reach us.
Consequently our order troops were not present in strong force at that meeting. There was only one squad present, which did not consist of the usual one hundred men, but only of about forty-six. And our telephone connections were not yet sufficiently organized to be able to give the alarm in the course of an hour or so, so that a sufficiently powerful number of order troops to deal with the situation could be called. It must also be added that on several previous occasions we had been forewarned, but nothing special happened. The old proverb, 'Revolutions which were announced have scarcely ever come off', had hitherto been proved true in our regard.
Possibly for this reason also sufficiently strong precautions had not been taken on that day to cope with the brutal determination of our opponents to break up our meeting.
Finally, we did not believe that the Hofbrauhaus in Munich was suitable for the interruptive tactics of our adversaries. We had feared such a thing far more in the bigger halls, especially that of the Krone Circus. But on this point we learned a very serviceable lesson that evening. Later, we studied this whole question according to a scientific system and arrived at results, both interesting and incredible, and which subsequently were an essential factor in the direction of our organization and in the tactics of our Storm Troops.
When I arrived in the entrance halt of the Hofbrauhaus at 7.45 that evening I realizcd that there could be no doubt as to what the 'Reds' intended. The hall was filled, and for that reason the police had barred the entrances. Our adversaries, who had arrived very early, were in the hall, and our followers were for the most part outside. The small bodyguard awaited me at the entrance. I had the doors leading to the principal hall closed and then asked the bodyguard of forty-five or forty-six men to come forward. I made it clear to the boys that perhaps on that evening for the first time they would have to show their unbending and unbreakable loyalty to the movement and that not one of us should leave the hall unless carried out dead. I added that I would remain in the hall and that I did not believe that one of them would abandon me, and that if I saw any one of them act the coward I myself would personally tear off his armlet and his badge. I demanded of them that they should come forward if the slightest attempt to sabotage the meeting were made and that they must remember that the best defence is always attack.
I was greeted with a triple 'Heil' which sounded more hoarse and violent than usual.
Then I advanced through the hall and could take in the situation with my own eyes. Our opponents sat closely huddled together and tried to pierce me through with their looks. Innumerable faces glowing with hatred and rage were fixed on me, while others with sneering grimaces shouted at me together. Now they would 'Finish with us. We must look out for our entrails. To-day they would smash in our faces once and for all.' And there were other expressions of an equally elegant character. They knew that they were there in superior numbers and they acted accordingly.
Yet we were able to open the meeting; and I began to speak. In the Hall of the Hofbrauhaus I stood always at the side, away from the entry and on top of a beer table. Therefore I was always right in the midst of the audience. Perhaps this circumstance was responsible for creating a certain feeling and a sense of agreement which I never found elsewhere.
Before me, and especially towards my left, there were only opponents, seated or standing. They were mostly robust youths and men from the Maffei Factory, from Kustermann's, and from the factories on the Isar, etc. Along the right-hand wall of the hall they were thickly massed quite close to my table. They now began to order litre mugs of beer, one after the other, and to throw the empty mugs under the table. In this way whole batteries were collected. I should have been surprised had this meeting ended peacefully.
In spite of all the interruptions, I was able to speak for about an hour and a half and I felt as if I were master of the situation. Even the ringleaders of the disturbers appeared to be convinced of this; for they steadily became more uneasy, often left the hall, returned and spoke to their men in an obviously nervous way.
A small psychological error which I committed in replying to an interruption, and the mistake of which I myself was conscious the moment the words had left my mouth, gave the sign for the outbreak.
There were a few furious outbursts and all in a moment a man jumped on a seat and shouted "Liberty". At that signal the champions of liberty began their work.
In a few moments the hall was filled with a yelling and shrieking mob. Numerous beer-mugs flew like howitzers above their heads. Amid this uproar one heard the crash of chair legs, the crashing of mugs, groans and yells and screams.
It was a mad spectacle. I stood where I was and could observe my boys doing their duty, every one of them.
There I had the chance of seeing what a bourgeois meeting could be.
The dance had hardly begun when my Storm Troops, as they were called from that day onwards, launched their attack. Like wolves they threw themselves on the enemy again and again in parties of eight or ten and began steadily to thrash them out of the hall. After five minutes I could see hardly one of them that was not streaming with blood. Then I realized what kind of men many of them were, above all my brave Maurice Hess, who is my private secretary today, and many others who, even though seriously wounded, attacked again and again as long as they could stand on their feet. Twenty minutes long the pandemonium continued. Then the opponents, who had numbered seven or eight hundred, had been driven from the hall or hurled out headlong by my men, who had not numbered fifty. Only in the left corner a big crowd still stood out against our men and put up a bitter fight. Then two pistol shots rang out from the entrance to the hall in the direction of the platform and now a wild din of shooting broke out from all sides. One's heart almost rejoiced at this spectacle which recalled memories of the War.
At that moment it was not possible to identify the person who had fired the shots. But at any rate I could see that my boys renewed the attack with increased fury until finally the last disturbers were overcome and flung out of the hall.
About twenty-five minutes had passed since it all began. The hall looked as if a bomb had exploded there. Many of my comrades had to be bandaged and others taken away. But we remained masters of the situation. Hermann Essen, who was chairman of the meeting, announced: "The meeting will continue. The speaker shall proceed." So I went on with my speech.
When we ourselves declared the meeting at an end an excited police officer rushed in, waved his hands and declared: "The meeting is dissolved."
Without wishing to do so I had to laugh at this example of the law's delay. It was real police pompousness. The smaller they are the greater they must always try to appear.
That evening we learned a real lesson. And our adversaries never forgot the lesson they had received.
Up to the autumn of 1923 the Munchener post did not again mention the clenched fists of the Proletariat.

----------

[Previous Chapter (The Sstruggle of the Early Period -- the Significance of the Spoken Word)] [Home] [Next Chapter (The Strong Man is Mightiest Alone)]
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter VIII Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter VIII: The Strong Man is Mightiest Alone

In the preceding chapter I mentioned the existence of a co-operative union between the German patriotic associations. Here I shall deal briefly with this question.
In speaking of a co-operative union we generally mean a group of associations which, for the purpose of facilitating their work, establish mutual relations for collaborating with one another along certain lines, appointing a common directorate with varying powers and thenceforth carrying out a common line of action. The average citizen is pleased and reassured when he hears that these associations, by establishing a co-operative union among one another, have at long last discovered a common platform on which they can stand united and have eliminated all grounds of mutual difference. Therewith a general conviction arises, to the effect that such a union is an immense gain in strength and that small groups which were weak as long as they stood alone have now suddenly become strong. Yet this conviction is for the most part a mistaken one.
It will be interesting and, in my opinion, important for the better understanding of this question if we try to get a clear notion of how it comes about that these associations, unions, etc., are established, when all of them declare that they have the same ends in view. In itself it would be logical to expect that one aim should be fought for by a single association and it would be more reasonable if there were not a number of associations fighting for the same aim. In the beginning there was undoubtedly only one association which had this one fixed aim in view. One man proclaimed a truth somewhere and, calling for the solution of a definite question, fixed his aim and founded a movement for the purpose of carrying his views into effect.
That is how an association or a party is founded, the scope of whose programme is either the abolition of existing evils or the positive establishment of a certain order of things in the future.
Once such a movement has come into existence it may lay practical claim to certain priority rights. The natural course of things would now be that all those who wish to fight for the same objective as this movement is striving for should identify themselves with it and thus increase its strength, so that the common purpose in view may be all the better served. Especially men of superior intelligence must feel, one and all, that by joining the movement they are establishing precisely those conditions which are necessary for practical success in the common struggle. Accordingly it is reasonable and, in a certain sense, honest V which honesty, as I shall show later, is an element of very great importance V that only one movement should be founded for the purpose of attaining the one aim.
The fact that this does not happen must be attributed to two causes. The first may almost be described as tragic. The second is a matter for pity, because it has its foundation in the weaknesses of human nature. But, on going to the bottom of things, I see in both causes only facts which give still another ground for strengthening our will, our energy and intensity of purpose; so that finally, through the higher development of the human faculties, the solution of the problem in question may be rendered possible.
The tragic reason why it so often happens that the pursuit of one definite task is not left to one association alone is as follows: Generally speaking, every action carried out on the grand style in this world is the expression of a desire that has already existed for a long time in millions of human hearts, a longing which may have been nourished in silence. Yes, it may happen that throughout centuries men may have been yearning for the solution of a definite problem, because they have been suffering under an unendurable order of affairs, without seeing on the far horizon the coming fulfilment of the universal longing. Nations which are no longer capable of finding an heroic deliverance from such a sorrowful fate may be looked upon as effete. But, on the other hand, nothing gives better proof of the vital forces of a people and the consequent guarantee of its right to exist than that one day, through a happy decree of Destiny, a man arises who is capable of liberating his people from some great oppression, or of wiping out some bitter distress, or of calming the national soul which had been tormented through its sense of insecurity, and thus fulfilling what had long been the universal yearning of the people.
An essential characteristic of what are called the great questions of the time is that thousands undertake the task of solving them and that many feel themselves called to this task: yea, even that Destiny itself has proposed many for the choice, so that through the free play of forces the stronger and bolder shall finally be victorious and to him shall be entrusted the task of solving the problem.
Thus it may happen that for centuries many are discontented with the form in which their religious life expresses itself and yearn for a renovation of it; and so it may happen that through this impulse of the soul some dozens of men may arise who believe that, by virtue of their understanding and their knowledge, they are called to solve the religious difficulties of the time and accordingly present themselves as the prophets of a new teaching or at least as declared adversaries of the standing beliefs.
Here also it is certain that the natural law will take its course, inasmuch as the strongest will be destined to fulfil the great mission. But usually the others are slow to acknowledge that only one man is called. On the contrary, they all believe that they have an equal right to engage in the solution of the diffculties in question and that they are equally called to that task. Their contemporary world is generally quite unable to decide which of all these possesses the highest gifts and accordingly merits the support of all.
So in the course of centuries, or indeed often within the same epoch, different men establish different movements to struggle towards the same end. At least the end is declared by the founders of the movements to be the same, or may be looked upon as such by the masses of the people. The populace nourishes vague desires and has only general opinions, without having any precise notion of their own ideals and desires or of the question whether and how it is impossible for these ideals and desires to be fulfilled.
The tragedy lies in the fact that many men struggle to reach the same objective by different roads, each one genuinely believing in his own mission and holding himself in duty bound to follow his own road without any regard for the others.
These movements, parties, religious groups, etc., originate entirely independently of one another out of the general urge of the time, and all with a view to working towards the same goal. It may seem a tragic thing, at least at first sight, that this should be so, because people are too often inclined to think that forces which are dispersed in different directions would attain their ends far more quickly and more surely if they were united in one common effort. But that is not so. For Nature herself decides according to the rules of her inexorable logic. She leaves these diverse groups to compete with one another and dispute the palm of victory and thus she chooses the clearest, shortest and surest way along which she leads the movement to its final goal.
How could one decide from outside which is the best way, if the forces at hand were not allowed free play, if the final decision were to rest with the doctrinaire judgment of men who are so infatuated with their own superior knowledge that their minds are not open to accept the indisputable proof presented by manifest success, which in the last analysis always gives the final confirmation of the justice of a course of action.
Hence, though diverse groups march along different routes towards the same objective, as soon as they come to know that analogous efforts are being made around them, they will have to study all the more carefully whether they have chosen the best way and whether a shorter way may not be found and how their efforts can best be employed to reach the objective more quickly.
Through this rivalry each individual protagonist develops his faculties to a still higher pitch of perfection and the human race has frequently owed its progress to the lessons learned from the misfortunes of former attempts which have come to grief. Therefore we may conclude that we come to know the better ways of reaching final results through a state of things which at first sight appeared tragic; namely, the initial dispersion of individual efforts, wherein each group was unconsciously responsible for such dispersion.
In studying the lessons of history with a view to finding a way for the solution of the German problem, the prevailing opinion at one time was that there were two possible paths along which that problem might be solved and that these two paths should have united from the very beginning. The chief representatives and champions of these two paths were Austria and Prussia respectively, Habsburg and Hohenzollern. All the rest, according to this prevalent opinion, ought to have entrusted their united forces to the one or the other party. But at that time the path of the most prominent representative, the Habsburg, would have been taken, though the Austrian policy would never have led to the foundation of a united German Reich.
Finally, a strong and united German Reich arose out of that which many millions of Germans deplored in their hearts as the last and most terrible manifestation of our fratricidal strife. The truth is that the German Imperial Crown was retrieved on the battle field of Koniggratz and not in the fights that were waged before Paris, as was commonly asserted afterwards.
Thus the foundation of the German Reich was not the consequence of any common will working along common lines, but it was much more the outcome of a deliberate struggle for hegemony, though the protagonists were often hardly conscious of this. And from this struggle Prussia finally came out victorious. Anybody who is not so blinded by partisan politics as to deny this truth will have to agree that the so-called wisdom of men would never have come to the same wise decision as the wisdom of Life itself, that is to say, the free play of forces, finally brought to realization. For in the German lands of two hundred years before who would seriously have believed that Hohenzollern Prussia, and not Habsburg, would become the germ cell, the founder and the tutor of the new Reich? And, on the other hand, who would deny today that Destiny thus acted wiser than human wisdom. Who could now imagine a German Reich based on the foundations of an effete and degenerate dynasty?
No. The general evolution of things, even though it took a century of struggle, placed the best in the position that it had merited.
And that will always be so. Therefore it is not to be regretted if different men set out to attain the same objective. In this way the strongest and swiftest becomes recognized and turns out to be the victor.
Now there is a second cause for the fact that often in the lives of nations several movements which show the same characteristics strive along different ways to reach what appears to be the same goal. This second cause is not at all tragic, but just something that rightly calls forth pity. It arises from a sad mixture of envy, jealousy, ambition, and the itch for taking what belongs to others. Unfortunately these failings are often found united in single specimens of the human species.
The moment a man arises who profoundly understands the distress of his people and, having diagnosed the evil with perfect accuracy, takes measures to cure it; the moment he fixes his aim and chooses the means to reach it V then paltry and pettifogging people become all attention and eagerly follow the doings of this man who has thus come before the public gaze. Just like sparrows who are apparently indifferent, but in reality are firmly intent on the movements of the fortunate companion with the morsel of bread so that they may snatch it from him if he should momentarily relax his hold on it, so it is also with the human species. All that is needed is that one man should strike out on a new road and then a crowd of poltroons will prick up their ears and begin to sniff for whatever little booty may possibly lie at the end of that road. The moment they think they have discovered where the booty is to be gathered they hurry to find another way which may prove to be quicker in reaching that goal.
As soon as a new movement is founded and has formulated a definite programme, people of that kind come forward and proclaim that they are fighting for the same cause. This does not imply that they are ready honestly to join the ranks of such a movement and thus recognize its right of priority. It implies rather that they intend to steal the programme and found a new party on it. In doing this they are shameless enough to assure the unthinking public that for a long time they had intended to take the same line of action as the other has now taken, and frequently they succeed in thus placing themselves in a favourable light, instead of arousing the general disapprobation which they justly deserve. For it is a piece of gross impudence to take what has already been inscribed on another's flag and display it on one's own, to steal the programme of another, and then to form a separate group as if all had been created by the new founder of this group. The impudence of such conduct is particularly demonstrated when the individuals who first caused dispersion and disruption by their new foundation are those who V as experience has shown V are most emphatic in proclaiming the necessity of union and unity the moment they find they cannot catch up with their adversary's advance.
It is to that kind of conduct that the so-called 'patriotic disintegration' is to be attributed.
Certainly in the years 1918 V 1919 the founding of a multitude of new groups, parties, etc., calling themselves 'Patriotic,' was a natural phenomenon of the time, for which the founders were not at all responsible. By 1920 the National Socialist German Labour Party had slowly crystallized from all these parties and had become supreme. There could be no better proof of the sterling honesty of certain individual founders than the fact that many of them decided, in a really admirable manner, to sacrifice their manifestly less successful movements to the stronger movement, by joining it unconditionally and dissolving their own.
This is specially true in regard to Julius Streicher, who was at that time the protagonist of the German Socialist party in Nurnberg. The National Socialist German Labour Party had been founded with similar aims in view, but quite independently of the other. I have already said that Streicher, then a teacher in Nurnberg, was the chief protagonist of the German Socialist Party. He had a sacred conviction of the mission and future of his own movement. As soon, however, as the superior strength and stronger growth of the National Socialist Party became clear and unquestionable to his mind, he gave up his work in the German Socialist Party and called upon his followers to fall into line with the National Socialist German Labour Party, which had come out victorious from the mutual contest, and carry on the fight within its ranks for the common cause. The decision was personally a difficult one for him, but it showed a profound sense of honesty.
When that first period of the movement was over there remained no further dispersion of forces: for their honest intentions had led the men of that time to the same honourable, straightforward and just conclusion. What we now call the 'patriotic disintegration' owes its existence exclusively to the second of the two causes which I have mentioned. Ambitious men who at first had no ideas of their own, and still less any concept of aims to be pursued, felt themselves 'called' exactly at that moment in which the success of the National Socialist German Labour Party became unquestionable.
Suddenly programmes appeared which were mere transcripts of ours. Ideas were proclaimed which had been taken from us. Aims were set up on behalf of which we had been fighting for several years, and ways were mapped out which the National Socialists had for a long time trodden. All kinds of means were resorted to for the purpose of trying to convince the public that, although the National Socialist German Labour Party had now been for a long time in existence, it was found necessary to establish these new parties. But all these phrases were just as insincere as the motives behind them were ignoble.
In reality all this was grounded only on one dominant motive. That motive was the personal ambition of the founders, who wished to play a part in which their own pigmy talents could contribute nothing original except the gross effrontery which they displayed in appropriating the ideas of others, a mode of conduct which in ordinary life is looked upon as thieving.
At that time there was not an idea or concept launched by other people which these political kleptomaniacs did not seize upon at once for the purpose of applying to their own base uses. Those who did all this were the same people who subsequently, with tears in their eyes, profoundly deplored the 'patriotic disintegration' and spoke unceasingly about the 'necessity of unity'. In doing this they nurtured the secret hope that they might be able to cry down the others, who would tire of hearing these loud-mouthed accusations and would end up by abandoning all claim to the ideas that had been stolen from them and would abandon to the thieves not only the task of carrying these ideas into effect but also the task of carrying on the movements of which they themselves were the original founders.
When that did not succeed, and the new enterprises, thanks to the paltry mentality of their promoters, did not show the favourable results which had been promised beforehand, then they became more modest in their pretences and were happy if they could land themselves in one of the so-called 'co-operative unions'.
At that period everything which could not stand on its own feet joined one of those co-operative unions, believing that eight lame people hanging on to one another could force a gladiator to surrender to them.
But if among all these cripples there was one who was sound of limb he had to use all his strength to sustain the others and thus he himself was practically paralysed.
We ought to look upon the question of joining these working coalitions as a tactical problem, but, in coming to a decision, we must never forget the following fundamental principle:
Through the formation of a working coalition associations which are weak in themselves can never be made strong, whereas it can and does happen not infrequently that a strong association loses its strength by joining in a coalition with weaker ones. It is a mistake to believe that a factor of strength will result from the coalition of weak groups; because experience shows that under all forms and all conditions the majority represents the duffers and poltroons. Hence a multiplicity of associations, under a directorate of many heads, elected by these same associations, is abandoned to the control of poltroons and weaklings. Through such a coalition the free play of forces is paralysed, the struggle for the selection of the best is abolished and therewith the necessary and final victory of the healthier and stronger is impeded. Coalitions of that kind are inimical to the process of natural development, because for the most part they hinder rather than advance the solution of the problem which is being fought for.
It may happen that, from considerations of a purely tactical kind, the supreme command of a movement whose goal is set in the future will enter into a coalition with such associations for the treatment of special questions and may also stand on a common platform with them, but this can be only for a short and limited period. Such a coalition must not be permanent, if the movement does not wish to renounce its liberating mission. Because if it should become indissolubly tied up in such a combination it would lose the capacity and the right to allow its own forces to work freely in following out a natural development, so as to overcome rivals and attain its own objective triumphantly.
It must never be forgotten that nothing really great in this world has ever been achieved through coalitions, but that such achievements have always been due to the triumph of the individual. Successes achieved through coalitions, owing to the very nature of their source, carry the germs of future disintegration in them from the very start; so much so that they have already forfeited what has been achieved. The great revolutions which have taken place in human thought and have veritably transformed the aspect of the world would have been inconceivable and impossible to carry out except through titanic struggles waged between individual natures, but never as the enterprises of coalitions.
And, above all things, the People's State will never be created by the desire for compromise inherent in a patriotic coalition, but only by the iron will of a single movement which has successfully come through in the struggle with all the others.

----------

[Previous Chapter (The Struggle with the Red Front)] [Home] [Next Chapter (Basic Ideas Regarding the Meaning and Organization of the SA)]
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter IX Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter IX: Basic Ideas Regarding the Meaning and Organization of the SA

The strength of the old state rested on three pillars: the monarchical form of government, the civil service, and the army. The Revolution of 1918 abolished the form of government, dissolved the army and abandoned the civil service to the corruption of party politics. Thus the essential supports of what is called the Authority of the State were shattered. This authority nearly always depends on three elements, which are the essential foundations of all authority.
Popular support is the first element which is necessary for the creation of authority. But an authority resting on that foundation alone is still quite frail, uncertain and vacillating. Hence everyone who finds himself vested with an authority that is based only on popular support must take measures to improve and consolidate the foundations of that authority by the creation of force. Accordingly we must look upon power, that is to say, the capacity to use force, as the second foundation on which all authority is based. This foundation is more stable and secure, but not always stronger, than the first. If popular support and power are united together and can endure for a certain time, then an authority may arise which is based on a still stronger foundation, namely, the authority of tradition. And, finally, if popular support, power, and tradition are united together, then the authority based on them may be looked upon as invincible.
In Germany the Revolution abolished this last foundation. There was no longer even a traditional authority. With the collapse of the old Reich, the suppression of the monarchical form of government, the destruction of all the old insignia of greatness and the imperial symbols, tradition was shattered at a blow. The result was that the authority of the State was shaken to its foundations.
The second pillar of statal authority, namely power, also ceased to exist. In order to carry through the Revolution it was necessary to dissolve that body which had hitherto incorporated the organized force and power of the State, namely, the Army. Indeed, some detached fragments of the Army itself had to be employed as fighting elements in the Revolution. The Armies at the front were not subjected in the same measure to this process of disruption; but as they gradually left farther behind them the fields of glory on which they had fought heroically for four-and-half years, they were attacked by the solvent acid that had permeated the Fatherland; and when they arrived at the demobilizing centres they fell into that state of confusion which was styled voluntary obedience in the time of the Soldiers' Councils.
Of course it was out of the question to think of founding any kind of authority on this crowd of mutineering soldiers, who looked upon military service as a work of eight hours per day. Therefore the second element, that which guarantees the stability of authority, was also abolished and the Revolution had only the original element, popular support, on which to build up its authority. But this basis was extraordinarily insecure. By means of a few violent thrusts the Revolution had shattered the old statal edifice to its deepest foundations, but only because the normal equilibrium within the social structure of the nation had already been destroyed by the war.
Every national body is made up of three main classes. At one extreme we have the best of the people, taking the word 'best' here to indicate those who are highly endowed with the civic virtues and are noted for their courage and their readiness to sacrifice their private interests. At the other extreme are the worst dregs of humanity, in whom vice and egotistic interests prevail. Between these two extremes stands the third class, which is made up of the broad middle stratum, who do not represent radiant heroism or vulgar vice.
The stages of a nation's rise are accomplished exclusively under the leadership of the best extreme.
Times of normal and symmetrical development, or of stable conditions, owe their existence and outwardly visible characteristics to the preponderating influence of the middle stratum. In this stage the two extreme classes are balanced against one another; in other words, they are relatively cancelled out.
Times of national collapse are determined by the preponderating influence of the worst elements.
It must be noted here, however, that the broad masses, which constitute what I have called the middle section, come forward and make their influence felt only when the two extreme sections are engaged in mutual strife. In case one of the extreme sections comes out victorious the middle section will readily submit to its domination. If the best dominate, the broad masses will follow it. Should the worst extreme turn out triumphant, then the middle section will at least offer no opposition to it; for the masses that constitute the middle class never fight their own battles.
The outpouring of blood for four-and-a-half years during the war destroyed the inner equilibrium between these three sections in so far as it can be said V though admitting the sacrifices made by the middle section V that the class which consisted of the best human elements almost completely disappeared through the loss of so much of its blood in the war, because it was impossible to replace the truly enormous quantity of heroic German blood which had been shed during those four-and-a-half years. In hundreds of thousands of cases it was always a matter of 'volunteers to the front', volunteers for patrol and duty, volunteer dispatch carriers, volunteers for establishing and working telephonic communications, volunteers for bridge-building, volunteers for the submarines, volunteers for the air service, volunteers for the storm battalions, and so on, and so on. During four-and-a-half years, and on thousands of occasions, there was always the call for volunteers and again for volunteers. And the result was always the same. Beardless young fellows or fully developed men, all filled with an ardent love for their country, urged on by their own courageous spirit or by a lofty sense of their duty V it was always such men who answered the call for volunteers. Tens of thousands, indeed hundreds of thousands, of such men came forward, so that that kind of human material steadily grew scarcer and scarcer. What did not actually fall was maimed in the fight or gradually had to join the ranks of the crippled because of the wounds they were constantly receiving, and thus they had to carry on interminably owing to the steady decrease in the supply of such men. In 1914 whole armies were composed of volunteers who, owing to a criminal lack of conscience on the part of our feckless parliamentarians, had not received any proper training in times of peace, and so were thrown as defenceless cannon-fodder to the enemy. The four hundred thousand who thus fell or were permanently maimed on the battlefields of Flanders could not be replaced any more. Their loss was something far more than merely numerical. With their death the scales, which were already too lightly weighed at that end of the social structure which represented our best human quality, now moved upwards rapidly, becoming heavier on the other end with those vulgar elements of infamy and cowardice V in short, there was an increase in the elements that constituted the worst extreme of our population.
And there was something more: While for four-and-a-half years our best human material was being thinned to an exceptional degree on the battlefields, our worst people wonderfully succeeded in saving themselves. For each hero who made the supreme sacrifice and ascended the steps of Valhalla, there was a shirker who cunningly dodged death on the plea of being engaged in business that was more or less useful at home.
And so the picture which presented itself at the end of the war was this: The great middle stratum of the nation had fulfilled its duty and paid its toll of blood. One extreme of the population, which was constituted of the best elements, had given a typical example of its heroism and had sacrificed itself almost to a man. The other extreme, which was constituted of the worst elements of the population, had preserved itself almost intact, through taking advantage of absurd laws and also because the authorities failed to enforce certain articles of the military code.
This carefully preserved scum of our nation then made the Revolution. And the reason why it could do so was that the extreme section composed of the best elements was no longer there to oppose it. It no longer existed.
Hence the German Revolution, from the very beginning, depended on only one section of the population. This act of Cain was not committed by the German people as such, but by an obscure canaille of deserters, hooligans, etc.
The man at the front gladly welcomed the end of the strife in which so much blood had been shed. He was happy to be able to return home and see his wife and children once again. But he had no moral connection with the Revolution. He did not like it, nor did he like those who had provoked and organized it. During the four-and-a-half years of that bitter struggle at the front he had come to forget the party hyenas at home and all their wrangling had become foreign to him.
The Revolution was really popular only with a small section of the German people: namely, that class and their accomplices who had selected the rucksack as the hall-mark of all honourable citizens in this new State. They did not like the Revolution for its own sake, though many people still erroneously believe the contrary, but for the consequences which followed in its train.
But it was very difficult to establish any abiding authority on the popular support given to these Marxist freebooters. And yet the young Republic stood in need of authority at any cost, unless it was ready to agree to be overthrown after a short period of chaos by an elementary force assembled from those last elements that still remained among the best extreme of the population.
The danger which those who were responsible for the Revolution feared most at that time was that, in the turmoil of the confusion which they themselves had created, the ground would suddenly be taken from under their feet, that they might be suddenly seized and transported to another terrain by an iron grip, such as has often appeared at these junctures in the history of nations. The Republic must be consolidated at all costs.
Hence it was forced almost immediately after its foundation to erect another pillar beside that wavering pillar of popularity. They found that power must be organized once again in order to procure a firmer foundation for their authority.
When those who had been the matadors of the Revolution in December 1918, and January and February 1919, felt the ground trembling beneath their feet they looked around them for men who would be ready to reinforce them with military support; for their feeble position was dependent only on whatever popular favour they enjoyed. The 'anti-militarist' Republic had need of soldiers. But the first and only pillar on which the authority of the State rested, namely, its popularity, was grounded only on a conglomeration of rowdies and thieves, burglars, deserters, shirkers, etc. Therefore in that section of the nation which we have called the evil extreme it was useless to look for men who would be willing to sacrifice their lives on behalf of a new ideal. The section which had nourished the revolutionary idea and carried out the Revolution was neither able nor willing to call on the soldiers to protect it. For that section had no wish whatsoever to organize a republican State, but to disorganize what already existed and thus satisfy its own instincts all the better. Their password was not the organization and construction of the German Republic, but rather the plundering of it.
Hence the cry for help sent out by the public representatives, who were beset by a thousand anxieties, did not find any response among this class of people, but rather provoked a feeling of bitterness and repudiation. For they looked upon this step as the beginning of a breach of faith and trust, and in the building up of an authority which was no longer based on popular support but also on force they saw the beginning of a hostile move against what the Revolution meant essentially for those elements. They feared that measures might be taken against the right to robbery and absolute domination on the part of a horde of thieves and plunderers V in short, the worst rabble V who had broken out of the convict prisons and left their chains behind.
The representatives of the people might cry out as much as they liked, but they could get no help from that rabble. The cries for help were met with the counter-cry 'traitors' by those very people on whose support the popularity of the regime was founded.
Then for the first time large numbers of young Germans were found who were ready to button on the military uniform once again in the service of 'Peace and Order', as they believed, shouldering the carbine and rifle and donning the steel helmet to defend the wreckers of the Fatherland. Volunteer corps were assembled and, although hating the Revolution, they began to defend it. The practical effect of their action was to render the Revolution firm and stable. In doing this they acted in perfect good faith.
The real organizer of the Revolution and the actual wire-puller behind it, the international Jew, had sized up the situation correctly. The German people were not yet ripe to be drawn into the blood swamp of Bolshevism, as the Russian people had been drawn. And that was because there was a closer racial union between the intellectual classes in Germany and the manual workers, and also because broad social strata were permeated with cultured people, such as was the case also in the other States of Western Europe; but this state of affairs was completely lacking in Russia. In that country the intellectual classes were mostly not of Russian nationality, or at least they did not have the racial characteristics of the Slav. The thin upper layer of intellectuals which then existed in Russia might be abolished at any time, because there was no intermediate stratum connecting it organically with the great mass of the people. There the mental and moral level of the great mass of the people was frightfully low.
In Russia the moment the agitators were successful in inciting broad masses of the people, who could not read or write, against the upper layer of intellectuals who were not in contact with the masses or permanently linked with them in any way V at that moment the destiny of Russia was decided, the success of the Revolution was assured. Thereupon the analphabetic Russian became the slave of his Jewish dictators who, on their side, were shrewd enough to name their dictatorship 'The Dictatorship of the People'.
In the case of Germany an additional factor must be taken into account. Here the Revolution could be carried into effect only if the Army could first be gradually dismembered. But the real author of the Revolution and of the process of disintegration in the Army was not the soldier who had fought at the front but the canaille which more or less shunned the light and which were either quartered in the home garrisons or were officiating as 'indispensables' somewhere in the business world at home. This army was reinforced by ten thousand deserters who, without running any particular risk, could turn their backs on the Front. At all times the real poltroon fears nothing so much as death. But at the Front he had death before his eyes every day in a thousand different shapes. There has always been one possible way, and one only, of making weak or wavering men, or even downright poltroons, face their duty steadfastly. This means that the deserter must be given to understand that his desertion will bring upon him just the very thing he is flying from. At the Front a man may die, but the deserter must die. Only this draconian threat against every attempt to desert the flag can have a terrifying effect, not merely on the individual but also on the mass. Therein lay the meaning and purpose of the military penal code.
It was a fine belief to think that the great struggle for the life of a nation could be carried through if it were based solely on voluntary fidelity arising from and sustained by the knowledge that such a struggle was necessary. The voluntary fulfilment of one's duty is a motive that determines the actions of only the best men, but not of the average type of men. Hence special laws are necessary; just as, for instance, the law against stealing, which was not made for men who are honest on principle but for the weak and unstable elements. Such laws are meant to hinder the evil-doer through their deterrent effect and thus prevent a state of affairs from arising in which the honest man is considered the more stupid, and which would end in the belief that it is better to have a share in the robbery than to stand by with empty hands or allow oneself to be robbed.
It was a mistake to believe that in a struggle which, according to all human foresight, might last for several years it would be possible to dispense with those expedients which the experience of hundreds and even of thousands of years had proved to be effective in making weak and unstable men face and fulfil their duty in difficult times and at moments of great nervous stress.
For the voluntary war hero it is, of course, not necessary to have the death penalty in the military code, but it is necessary for the cowardly egoists who value their own lives more than the existence of the community in the hour of national need. Such weak and characterless people can be held back from surrendering to their cowardice only by the application of the heaviest penalties. When men have to struggle with death every day and remain for weeks in trenches of mire, often very badly supplied with food, the man who is unsure of himself and begins to waver cannot be made to stick to his post by threats of imprisonment or even penal servitude. Only by a ruthless enforcement of the death penalty can this be effected. For experience shows that at such a time the recruit considers prison a thousand times more preferable than the battlefield. In prison at least his precious life is not in danger. The practical abolition of the death penalty during the war was a mistake for which we had to pay dearly. Such omission really meant that the military penal code was no longer recognized as valid. An army of deserters poured into the stations at the rear or returned home, especially in 1918, and there began to form that huge criminal organization with which we were suddenly faced, after November 7th, 1918, and which perpetrated the Revolution.
The Front had nothing to do with all this. Naturally, the soldiers at the Front were yearning for peace. But it was precisely that fact which represented a special danger for the Revolution. For when the German soldiers began to draw near home, after the Armistice, the revolutionaries were in trepidation and asked the same question again and again: What will the troops from the Front do? Will the field-greys stand for it?
During those weeks the Revolution was forced to give itself at least an external appearance of moderation, if it were not to run the risk of being wrecked in a moment by a few German divisions. For at that time, even if the commander of one division alone had made up his mind to rally the soldiers of his division, who had always remained faithful to him, in an onslaught to tear down the red flag and put the 'councils' up against the wall, or, if there was any resistance, to break it with trench-mortars and hand grenades, that division would have grown into an army of sixty divisions in less than four weeks. The Jew wire-pullers were terrified by this prospect more than by anything else; and to forestall this particular danger they found it necessary to give the Revolution a certain aspect of moderation. They dared not allow it to degenerate into Bolshevism, so they had to face the existing conditions by putting up the hypocritical picture of 'order and tranquillity'. Hence many important concessions, the appeal to the old civil service and to the heads of the old Army. They would be needed at least for a certain time, and only when they had served the purpose of Turks' Heads could the deserved kick-out be administered with impunity. Then the Republic would be taken entirely out of the hands of the old servants of the State and delivered into the claws of the revolutionaries.
They thought that this was the only plan which would succeed in duping the old generals and civil servants and disarm any eventual opposition beforehand through the apparently harmless and mild character of the new regime.
Practical experience has shown to what extent the plan succeeded.
The Revolution, however, was not made by the peaceful and orderly elements of the nation but rather by rioters, thieves and robbers. And the way in which the Revolution was developing did not accord with the intentions of these latter elements; still, on tactical grounds, it was not possible to explain to them the reasons for the course things were taking and make that course acceptable.
As Social Democracy gradually gained power it lost more and more the character of a crude revolutionary party. Of course in their inner hearts the Social Democrats wanted a revolution; and their leaders had no other end in view. Certainly not. But what finally resulted was only a revolutionary programme; but not a body of men who would be able to carry it out. A revolution cannot be carried through by a party of ten million members. If such a movement were attempted the leaders would find that it was not an extreme section of the population on which they had to depend butrather the broad masses of the middle stratum; hence the inert masses.
Recognizing all this, already during the war, the Jews caused the famous split in the Social Democratic Party. While the Social Democratic Party, conforming to the inertia of its mass following, clung like a leaden weight on the neck of the national defence, the actively radical elements were extracted from it and formed into new aggressive columns for purposes of attack. The Independent Socialist Party and the Spartacist League were the storm battalions of revolutionary Marxism. The objective assigned to them was to create a fait accompli, on the grounds of which the masses of the Social Democratic Party could take their stand, having been prepared for this event long beforehand. The feckless bourgeoisie had been estimated at its just value by the Marxists and treated en canaille. Nobody bothered about it, knowing well that in their canine servility the representatives of an old and worn-out generation would not be able to offer any serious resistance.
When the Revolution had succeeded and its artificers believed that the main pillars of the old State had been broken down, the Army returning from the Front began to appear in the light of a sinister sphinx and thus made it necessary to slow down the national course of the Revolution. The main body of the Social Democratic horde occupied the conquered positions, and the Independent Socialist and Spartacist storm battalions were side-tracked.
But that did not happen without a struggle.
The activist assault formations that had started the Revolution were dissatisfied and felt that they had been betrayed. They now wanted to continue the fight on their own account. But their illimitable racketeering became odious even to the wire-pullers of the Revolution. For the Revolution itself had scarcely been accomplished when two camps appeared. In the one camp were the elements of peace and order; in the other were those of blood and terror. Was it not perfectly natural that our bourgeoisie should rush with flying colours to the camp of peace and order? For once in their lives their piteous political organizations found it possible to act, inasmuch as the ground had been prepared for them on which they were glad to get a new footing; and thus to a certain extent they found themselves in coalition with that power which they hated but feared. The German political bourgeoisie achieved the high honour of being able to associate itself with the accursed Marxist leaders for the purpose of combating Bolshevism.
Thus the following state of affairs took shape as early as December 1918 and January 1919:
A minority constituted of the worst elements had made the Revolution. And behind this minority all the Marxist parties immediately fell into step. The Revolution itself had an outward appearance of moderation, which aroused against it the enmity of the fanatical extremists. These began to launch hand-grenades and fire machine-guns, occupying public buildings, thus threatening to destroy the moderate appearance of the Revolution. To prevent this terror from developing further a truce was concluded between the representatives of the new regime and the adherents of the old order, so as to be able to wage a common fight against the extremists. The result was that the enemies of the Republic ceased to oppose the Republic as such and helped to subjugate those who were also enemies of the Republic, though for quite different reasons. But a further result was that all danger of the adherents of the old State putting up a fight against the new was now definitely averted.
This fact must always be clearly kept in mind. Only by remembering it can we understand how it was possible that a nation in which nine-tenths of the people had not joined in a revolution, where seven-tenths repudiated it and six-tenths detested it V how this nation allowed the Revolution to be imposed upon it by the remaining one-tenth of the population.
Gradually the barricade heroes in the Spartacist camp petered out, and so did the nationalist patriots and idealists on the other side. As these two groups steadily dwindled, the masses of the middle stratum, as always happens, triumphed. The Bourgeoisie and the Marxists met together on the grounds of accomplished facts, and the Republic began to be consolidated. At first, however, that did not prevent the bourgeois parties from propounding their monarchist ideas for some time further, especially at the elections, whereby they endeavoured to conjure up the spirits of the dead past to encourage their own feeble-hearted followers. It was not an honest proceeding. In their hearts they had broken with the monarchy long ago; but the foulness of the new regime had begun to extend its corruptive action and make itself felt in the camp of the bourgeois parties. The common bourgeois politician now felt better in the slime of republican corruption than in the severe decency of the defunct State, which still lived in his memory.

As I have already pointed out, after the destruction of the old Army the revolutionary leaders were forced to strengthen statal authority by creating a new factor of power. In the conditions that existed they could do this only by winning over to their side the adherents of an outlook which was a direct contradiction of their own. From those elements alone it was possible slowly to create a new army which, limited numerically by the peace treaties, had to be subsequently transformed in spirit so as to become an instrument of the new regime.
Setting aside the defects of the old State, which really became the cause of the Revolution, if we ask how it was possible to carry the Revolution to a successful issue as a political act, we arrive at the following conclusions:
1. It was due to a process of dry rot in our conceptions of duty and obedience.
2. It was due also to the passive timidity of the Parties who were supposed to uphold the State.
To this the following must be added: The dry rot which attacked our concepts of duty and obedience was fundamentally due to our wholly non-national and purely State education. From this came the habit of confusing means and ends. Consciousness of duty, fulfilment of duty, and obedience, are not ends in themselves no more than the State is an end in itself; but they all ought to be employed as means to facilitate and assure the existence of a community of people who are kindred both physically and spiritually. At a moment when a nation is manifestly collapsing and when all outward signs show that it is on the point of becoming the victim of ruthless oppression, thanks to the conduct of a few miscreants, to obey these people and fulfil one's duty towards them is merely doctrinaire formalism, and indeed pure folly; whereas, on the other hand, the refusal of obedience and fulfilment of duty in such a case might save the nation from collapse. According to our current bourgeois idea of the State, if a divisional general received from above the order not to shoot he fulfilled his duty and therefore acted rightly in not shooting, because to the bourgeois mind blind formal obedience is a more valuable thing than the life of a nation. But according to the National Socialist concept it is not obedience to weak superiors that should prevail at such moments, in such an hour the duty of assuming personal responsibility towards the whole nation makes its appearance.
The Revolution succeeded because that concept had ceased to be a vital force with our people, or rather with our governments, and died down to something that was merely formal and doctrinaire.
As regards the second point, it may be said that the more profound cause of the fecklessness of the bourgeois parties must be attributed to the fact that the most active and upright section of our people had lost their lives in the war. Apart from that, the bourgeois parties, which may be considered as the only political formations that stood by the old State, were convinced that they ought to defend their principles only by intellectual ways and means, since the use of physical force was permitted only to the State. That outlook was a sign of the weakness and decadence which had been gradually developing. And it was also senseless at a period when there was a political adversary who had long ago abandoned that standpoint and, instead of this, had openly declared that he meant to attain his political ends by force whenever that became possible. When Marxism emerged in the world of bourgeois democracy, as a consequence of that democracy itself, the appeal sent out by the bourgeois democracy to fight Marxism with intellectual weapons was a piece of folly for which a terrible expiation had to be made later on. For Marxism always professed the doctrine that the use of arms was a matter which had to be judged from the standpoint of expediency and that success justified the use of arms.
This idea was proved correct during the days from November 7 to 10, 1918. The Marxists did not then bother themselves in the least about parliament or democracy, but they gave the death blow to both by turning loose their horde of criminals to shoot and raise hell.
When the Revolution was over the bourgeois parties changed the title of their firm and suddenly reappeared, the heroic leaders emerging from dark cellars or more lightsome storehouses where they had sought refuge. But, just as happens in the case of all representatives of antiquated institutions, they had not forgotten their errors or learned anything new. Their political programme was grounded in the past, even though they themselves had become reconciled to the new regime. Their aim was to secure a share in the new establishment, and so they continued the use of words as their sole weapon.
Therefore after the Revolution the bourgeois parties also capitulated to the street in a miserable fashion.
When the law for the Protection of the Republic was introduced the majority was not at first in favour of it. But, confronted with two hundred thousand Marxists demonstrating in the streets, the bourgeois 'statesmen' were so terror-stricken that they voted for the Law against their wills, for the edifying reason that otherwise they feared they might get their heads smashed by the enraged masses on leaving the Reichstag.
And so the new State developed along its own course, as if there had been no national opposition at all.
The only organizations which at that time had the strength and courage to face Marxism and its enraged masses were first of all the volunteer corps, and subsequently the organizations for self-defence, the civic guards and finally the associations formed by the demobilized soldiers of the old Army.
But the existence of these bodies did not appreciably change the course of German history; and that for the following causes:
As the so-called national parties were without influence, because they had no force which could effectively demonstrate in the street, the Leagues of Defence could not exercise any influence because they had no political idea and especially because they had no definite political aim in view.
The success which Marxism once attained was due to perfect co-operation between political purposes and ruthless force. What deprived nationalist Germany of all practical hopes of shaping German development was the lack of a determined co-operation between brute force and political aims wisely chosen.
Whatever may have been the aspirations of the 'national' parties, they had no force whatsoever to fight for these aspirations, least of all in the streets.
The Defense Leagues had force at their disposal. They were masters of the street and of the State, but they lacked political ideas and aims on behalf of which their forces might have been or could have been employed in the interests of the German nation. The cunning Jew was able in both cases, by his astute powers of persuasion, in reinforcing an already existing tendency to make this unfortunate state of affairs permanent and at the same time to drive the roots of it still deeper.
The Jew succeeded brilliantly in using his Press for the purpose of spreading abroad the idea that the defence associations were of a 'non-political' character just as in politics he was always astute enough to praise the purely intellectual character of the struggle and demand that it must always be kept on that plane
Millions of German imbeciles then repeated this folly without having the slightest suspicion that by so doing they were, for all practical purposes, disarming themselves and delivering themselves defenceless into the hands of the Jew.
But there is a natural explanation of this also. The lack of a great idea which would re-shape things anew has always meant a limitation in fighting power. The conviction of the right to employ even the most brutal weapons is always associated with an ardent faith in the necessity for a new and revolutionary transformation of the world.
A movement which does not fight for such high aims and ideals will never have recourse to extreme means.
The appearance of a new and great idea was the secret of success in the French Revolution. The Russian Revolution owes its triumph to an idea. And it was only the idea that enabled Fascism triumphantly to subject a whole nation to a process of complete renovation.
Bourgeois parties are not capable of such an achievement. And it was not the bourgeois parties alone that fixed their aim in a restoration of the past. The defence associations also did so, in so far as they concerned themselves with political aims at all. The spirit of the old war legions and Kyffauser tendencies lived in them and therewith helped politically to blunt the sharpest weapons which the German nation then possessed and allow them to rust in the hands of republican serfs. The fact that these associations were inspired by the best of intentions in so doing, and certainly acted in good faith, does not alter in the slightest degree the foolishness of the course they adopted.
In the consolidated Reichswehr Marxism gradually acquired the support of force, which it needed for its authority. As a logical consequence it proceeded to abolish those defence associations which it considered dangerous, declaring that they were now no longer necessary. Some rash leaders who defied the Marxist orders were summoned to court and sent to prison. But they all got what they had deserved.

The founding of the National Socialist German Labour Party incited a movement which was the first to fix its aim, not in a mechanical restoration of the past - as the bourgeois parties did - but in the substitution of an organic People's State for the present absurd statal mechanism.
From the first day of its foundation the new movement took its stand on the principle that its ideas had to be propagated by intellectual means but that, wherever necessary, muscular force must be employed to support this propaganda. In accordance with their conviction of the paramount importance of the new doctrine, the leaders of the new movement naturally believe that no sacrifice can be considered too great when it is a question of carrying through the purpose of the movement.
I have emphasized that in certain circumstances a movement which is meant to win over the hearts of the people must be ready to defend itself with its own forces against terrorist attempts on the part of its adversaries. It has invariably happened in the history of the world that formal State authority has failed to break a reign of terror which was inspired by a philosophy of life. It can only be conquered by a new and different philosophy of life whose representatives are quite as audacious and determined. The acknowledgment of this fact has always been very unpleasant for the bureaucrats who are the protectors of the State, but the fact remains nevertheless. The rulers of the State can guarantee tranquillity and order only in case the State embodies a philosophy which is shared in by the people as a whole; so that elements of disturbance can be treated as isolated criminals, instead of being considered as the champions of an idea which is diametrically opposed to official opinions. If such should be the case the State may employ the most violent measures for centuries long against the terror that threatens it; but in the end all these measures will prove futile, and the State will have to succumb.
The German State is intensely overrun by Marxism. In a struggle that went on for seventy years the State was not able to prevent the triumph of the Marxist idea. Even though the sentences to penal servitude and imprisonment amounted in all to thousands of years, and even though the most sanguinary methods of repression were in innumerable instances threatened against the champions of the Marxist philosophy, in the end the State was forced to capitulate almost completely. The ordinary bourgeois political leaders will deny all this, but their protests are futile.
Seeing that the State capitulated unconditionally to Marxism on November 9th, 1918, it will not suddenly rise up tomorrow as the conqueror of Marxism. On the contrary. Bourgeois simpletons sitting on office stools in the various ministries babble about the necessity of not governing against the wishes of the workers, and by the word 'workers' they mean the Marxists. By identifying the German worker with Marxism not only are they guilty of a vile falsification of the truth, but they thus try to hide their own collapse before the Marxist idea and the Marxist organization.
In view of the complete subordination of the present State to Marxism, the National Socialist Movement feels all the more bound not only to prepare the way for the triumph of its idea by appealing to the reason and understanding of the public but also to take upon itself the responsibility of organizing its own defence against the terror of the International, which is intoxicated with its own victory.
I have already described how practical experience in our young movement led us slowly to organize a system of defence for our meetings. This gradually assumed the character of a military body specially trained for the maintenance of order, and tended to develop into a service which would have its properly organized cadres.
This new formation might resemble the defence associations externally, but in reality there were no grounds of comparison between the one and the other.
As I have already said, the German defence organizations did not have any definite political ideas of their own. They really were only associations for mutual protection, and they were trained and organized accordingly, so that they were an illegal complement or auxiliary to the legal forces of the State. Their character as free corps arose only from the way in which they were constructed and the situation in which the State found itself at that time. But they certainly could not claim to be free corps on the grounds that they were associations formed freely and privately for the purpose of fighting for their own freely formed political convictions. Such they were not, despite the fact that some of their leaders and some associations as such were definitely opposed to the Republic. For before we can speak of political convictions in the higher sense we must be something more than merely convinced that the existing regime is defective. Political convictions in the higher sense mean that one has the picture of a new regime clearly before one's mind, feels that the establishment of this regime is an absolute necessity and sets himself to carry out that purpose as the highest task to which his life can be devoted.
The troops for the preservation of order, which were then formed under the National Socialist Movement, were fundamentally different from all the other defence associations by reason of the fact that our formations were not meant in any way to defend the state of things created by the Revolution, but rather that they were meant exclusively to support our struggle for the creation of a new Germany.
In the beginning this body was merely a guard to maintain order at our meetings. Its first task was limited to making it possible for us to hold our meetings, which otherwise would have been completely prevented by our opponents. These men were at that time trained merely for purposes of attack, but they were not taught to adore the big stick exclusively, as was then pretended in stupid German patriotic circles. They used the cudgel because they knew that it can be made impossible for high ideals to be put forward if the man who endeavours to propagate them can be struck down with the cudgel. As a matter of fact, it has happened in history not infrequently that some of the greatest minds have perished under the blows of the most insignificant helots. Our bodyguards did not look upon violence as an end in itself, but they protected the expositors of ideal aims and purposes against hostile coercion by violence. They also understood that there was no obligation to undertake the defence of a State which did not guarantee the defence of the nation, but that, on the contrary, they had to defend the nation against those who were threatening to destroy nation and State.
After the fight which took place at the meeting in the Munich Hofbrauhaus, where the small number of our guards who were present won everlasting fame for themselves by the heroic manner in which they stormed the adversaries; these guards were called The Storm Detachment. As the name itself indicates, they represent only a detachment of the Movement. They are one constituent element of it, just as is the Press, the propaganda, educational institutes, and other sections of the Party.
We learned how necessary was the formation of such a body, not only from our experience on the occasion of that memorable meeting but also when we sought gradually to carry the Movement beyond Munich and extend it to the other parts of Germany. Once we had begun to appear as a danger to Marxism the Marxists lost no opportunity of trying to crush beforehand all preparations for the holding of National Socialist meetings. When they did not succeed in this they tried to break up the meeting itself. It goes without saying that all the Marxist organizations, no matter of what grade or view, blindly supported the policy and activities of their representations in every case. But what is to be said of the bourgeois parties who, when they were reduced to silence by these same Marxists and in many places did not dare to send their speakers to appear before the public, yet showed themselves pleased, in a stupid and incomprehensible manner, every time we received any kind of set-back in our fight against Marxism. The bourgeois parties were happy to think that those whom they themselves could not stand up against, but had to knuckle down to, could not be broken by us. What must be said of those State officials, chiefs of police, and even cabinet ministers, who showed a scandalous lack of principle in presenting themselves externally to the public as 'national' and yet shamelessly acted as the henchmen of the Marxists in the disputes which we, National Socialists, had with the latter. What can be said of persons who debased themselves so far, for the sake of a little abject praise in the Jewish Press, that they persecuted those men to whose heroic courage and intervention, regardless of risk, they were partly indebted for not having been torn to pieces by the Red mob a few years previously and strung up to the lamp-posts?
One day these lamentable phenomena fired the late but unforgotten Prefect Pohner V a man whose unbending straightforwardness forced him to hate all twisters and to hate them as only a man with an honest heart can hate V to say: "In all my life I wished to be first a German and then an official, and I never wanted to mix up with these creatures who, as if they were kept officials, prostituted themselves before anybody who could play lord and master for the time being."
It was a specially sad thing that gradually tens of thousands of honest and loyal servants of the State did not only come under the power of such people but were also slowly contaminated by their unprincipled morals. Moreover, these kind of men pursued honest officials with a furious hatred, degrading them and driving them from their positions, and yet passed themselves off as 'national' by the aid of their lying hypocrisy.
From officials of that kind we could expect no support, and only in very rare instances was it given. Only by building up its own defence could our movement become secure and attract that amount of public attention and general respect which is given to those who can defend themselves when attacked.
As an underlying principle in the internal development of the Storm Detachment, we came to the decision that not only should it be perfectly trained in bodily efficiency but that the men should be so instructed as to make them indomitably convinced champions of the National Socialist ideas and, finally, that they should be schooled to observe the strictest discipline. This body was to have nothing to do with the defence organizations of the bourgeois type and especially not with any secret organization.
My reasons at that time for guarding strictly against letting the Storm Detachment of the German National Socialist Labour Party appear as a defence association were as follows:
On purely practical grounds it is impossible to build up a national defence organization by means of private associations, unless the State makes an enormous contribution to it. Whoever thinks otherwise overestimates his own powers. Now it is entirely out of the question to form organizations of any military value for a definite purpose on the principle of so-called 'voluntary discipline'. Here the chief support for enforcing orders, namely, the power of inflicting punishment, is lacking. In the autumn, or rather in the spring, of 1919 it was still possible to raise 'volunteer corps', not only because most of the men who came forward at that time had been through the school of the old Army, but also because the kind of duty imposed there constrained the individual to absolute obedience at least for a definite period of time.
That spirit is entirely lacking in the volunteer defence organizations of today. The more the defence association grows, the weaker its discipline becomes and so much the less can one demand from the individual members. Thus the whole organization will more and more assume the character of the old non-political associations of war comrades and veterans.
It is impossible to carry through a voluntary training in military service for larger masses unless one is assured absolute power of command. There will always be few men who will voluntarily and spontaneously submit to that kind of obedience which is considered natural and necessary in the Army.
Moreover, a proper system of military training cannot be developed where there are such ridiculously scanty means as those at the disposal of the defence associations. The principal task of such an institution must be to impart the best and most reliable kind of instruction. Eight years have passed since the end of the War, and during that time none of our German youth, at an age when formerly they would have had to do military service, have received any systematic training at all. The aim of a defence association cannot be to enlist here and now all those who have already received a military training; for in that case it could be reckoned with mathematical accuracy when the last member would leave the association. Even the younger soldier from 1918 will no longer be fit for front-line service twenty years later, and we are approaching that state of things with a rapidity that gives cause for anxiety. Thus the defence associations must assume more and more the aspect of the old ex-service men's societies. But that cannot be the meaning and purpose of an institution which calls itself, not an association of ex-service men but a defence association, indicating by this title that it considers its task to be, not only to preserve the tradition of the old soldiers and hold them together but also to propagate the idea of national defence and be able to carry this idea into practical effect, which means the creation of a body of men who are fit and trained for military defence.
But this implies that those elements will receive a military training which up to now have received none. This is something that in practice is impossible for the defence associations. Real soldiers cannot be made by a training of one or two hours per week. In view of the enormously increasing demands which modern warfare imposes on each individual soldier today, a military service of two years is barely sufficient to transform a raw recruit into a trained soldier. At the Front during the War we all saw the fearful consequences which our young recruits had to suffer from their lack of a thorough military training. Volunteer formations which had been drilled for fifteen or twenty weeks under an iron discipline and shown unlimited self-denial proved nevertheless to be no better than cannon fodder at the Front. Only when distributed among the ranks of the old and experienced soldiers could the young recruits, who had been trained for four or six months, become useful members of a regiment. Guided by the 'old men', they adapted themselves gradually to their task.
In the light of all this, how hopeless must the attempt be to create a body of fighting troops by a so-called training of one or two hours in the week, without any definite power of command and without any considerable means. In that way perhaps one could refresh military training in old soldiers, but raw recruits cannot thus be transformed into expert soldiers.
How such a proceeding produces utterly worthless results may also be demonstrated by the fact that at the same time as these so-called volunteer defence associations, with great effort and outcry and under difficulties and lack of necessities, try to educate and train a few thousand men of goodwill (the others need not be taken into account) for purposes of national defence, the State teaches our young men democratic and pacifist ideas and thus deprives millions and millions of their national instincts, poisons their logical sense of patriotism and gradually turns them into a herd of sheep who will patiently follow any arbitrary command. Thus they render ridiculous all those attempts made by the defence associations to inculcate their ideas in the minds of the German youth.
Almost more important is the following consideration, which has always made me take up a stand against all attempts at a so-called military training on the basis of the volunteer associations.
Assuming that, in spite of all the difficulties just mentioned, a defence association were successful in training a certain number of Germans every year to be efficient soldiers, not only as regards their mental outlook but also as regards bodily efficiency and the expert handling of arms, the result must necessarily be null and void in a State whose whole tendency makes it not only look upon such a defensive formation as undesirable but even positively hate it, because such an association would completely contradict the intimate aims of the political leaders, who are the corrupters of this State.
But anyhow, such a result would be worthless under governments which have demonstrated by their own acts that they do not lay the slightest importance on the military power of the nation and are not disposed to permit an appeal to that power only in case that it were necessary for the protection of their own malignant existence.
And that is the state of affairs today. It is not ridiculous to think of training some ten thousand men in the use of arms, and carry on that training surreptitiously, when a few years previously the State, having shamefully sacrificed eight-and-a-half million highly trained soldiers, not merely did not require their services any more, but, as a mark of gratitude for their sacrifices, held them up to public contumely. Shall we train soldiers for a regime which besmirched and spat upon our most glorious soldiers, tore the medals and badges from their breasts, trampled on their flags and derided their achievements? Has the present regime taken one step towards restoring the honour of the old army and bringing those who destroyed and outraged it to answer for their deeds? Not in the least. On the contrary, the people I have just referred to may be seen enthroned in the highest positions under the State today. And yet it was said at Leipzig: "Right goes with might." Since, however, in our Republic today might is in the hands of the very men who arranged for the Revolution, and since that Revolution represents a most despicable act of high treason against the nation V yea, the vilest act in German history V there can surely be no grounds for saying that might of this character should be enhanced by the formation of a new young army. It is against all sound reason.
The importance which this State attached, after the Revolution of 1918, to the reinforcement of its position from the military point of view is clearly and unmistakably demonstrated by its attitude towards the large self-defence organizations which existed in that period. They were not unwelcome as long as they were of use for the personal protection of the miserable creatures cast up by the Revolution.
But the danger to these creatures seemed to disappear as the debasement of our people gradually increased. As the existence of the defence associations no longer implied a reinforcement of the national policy they became superfluous. Hence every effort was made to disarm them and suppress them wherever that was possible.
History records only a few examples of gratitude on the part of princes. But there is not one patriot among the new bourgeoisie who can count on the gratitude of revolutionary incendiaries and assassins, persons who have enriched themselves from the public spoil and betrayed the nation. In examining the problem as to the wisdom of forming these defence associations I have never ceased to ask: 'For whom shall I train these young men? For what purpose will they be employed when they will have to be called out?' The answer to these questions lays down at the same time the best rule for us to follow.
If the present State should one day have to call upon trained troops of this kind it would never be for the purpose of defending the interests of the nation vis-a-vis those of the stranger but rather to protect the oppressors of the nation inside the country against the danger of a general outbreak of wrath on the part of a nation which has been deceived and betrayed and whose interests have been bartered away.
For this reason it was decided that the Storm Detachment of the German National Socialist Labour Party ought not to be in the nature of a military organization. It had to be an instrument of protection and education for the National Socialist Movement and its duties should be in quite a different sphere from that of the military defence association.
And, of course, the Storm Detachment should not be in the nature of a secret organization. Secret organizations are established only for purposes that are against the law. Therewith the purpose of such an organization is limited by its very nature. Considering the loquacious propensities of the German people, it is not possible to build up any vast organization, keeping it secret at the same time and cloaking its purpose. Every attempt of that kind is destined to turn out absolutely futile. It is not merely that our police officials today have at their disposal a staff of eavesdroppers and other such rabble who are ready to play traitor, like Judas, for thirty pieces of silver and will betray whatever secrets they can discover and will invent what they would like to reveal. In order to forestall such eventualities, it is never possible to bind one's own followers to the silence that is necessary. Only small groups can become really secret societies, and that only after long years of filtration. But the very smallness of such groups would deprive them of all value for the National Socialist Movement. What we needed then and need now is not one or two hundred dare-devil conspirators but a hundred thousand devoted champions of our philosophy of life. The work must not be done through secret conventicles but through formidable mass demonstrations in public. Dagger and pistol and poison-vial cannot clear the way for the progress of the movement. That can be done only by winning over the man in the street. We must overthrow Marxism, so that for the future National Socialism will be master of the street, just as it will one day become master of the State.
There is another danger connected with secret societies. It lies in the fact that their members often completely misunderstand the greatness of the task in hand and are apt to believe that a favourable destiny can be assured for the nation all at once by means of a single murder. Such a belief may find historical justification by appealing to cases where a nation had been suffering under the tyranny of some oppressor who at the same time was a man of genius and whose extraordinary personality guaranteed the internal solidity of his position and enabled him to maintain his fearful oppression. In such cases a man may suddenly arise from the ranks of the people who is ready to sacrifice himself and plunge the deadly steel into the heart of the hated individual. In order to look upon such a deed as abhorrent one must have the republican mentality of that petty canaille who are conscious of their own crime. But the greatest champion of liberty that the German people have ever had has glorified such a deed in William Tell.
During 1919 and 1920 there was danger that the members of secret organizations, under the influence of great historical examples and overcome by the immensity of the nation's misfortunes, might attempt to wreak vengeance on the destroyers of their country, under the belief that this would end the miseries of the people. All such attempts were sheer folly, for the reason that the Marxist triumph was not due to the superior genius of one remarkable person but rather to immeasurable incompetence and cowardly shirking on the part of the bourgeoisie. The hardest criticism that can be uttered against our bourgeoisie is simply to state the fact that it submitted to the Revolution, even though the Revolution did not produce one single man of eminent worth. One can always understand how it was possible to capitulate before a Robespierre, a Danton, or a Marat; but it was utterly scandalous to go down on all fours before the withered Scheidemann, the obese Herr Erzberger, Frederick Ebert, and the innumerable other political pigmies of the Revolution. There was not a single man of parts in whom one could see the revolutionary man of genius. Therein lay the country's misfortune; for they were only revolutionary bugs, Spartacists wholesale and retail. To suppress one of them would be an act of no consequence. The only result would be that another pair of bloodsuckers, equally fat and thirsty, would be ready to take his place.
During those years we had to take up a determined stand against an idea which owed its origin and foundation to historical episodes that were really great, but to which our own despicable epoch did not bear the slightest similarity.
The same reply may be given when there is question of putting somebody 'on the spot' who has acted as a traitor to his country. It would be ridiculous and illogical to shoot a poor wretch who had betrayed the position of a howitzer to the enemy while the highest positions of the government are occupied by a rabble who bartered away a whole empire, who have on their consciences the deaths of two million men who were sacrificed in vain, fellows who were responsible for the millions maimed in the war and who make a thriving business out of the republican regime without allowing their souls to be disturbed in any way. It would be absurd to do away with small traitors in a State whose government has absolved the great traitors from all punishment. For it might easily happen that one day an honest idealist, who, out of love for his country, had removed from circulation some miserable informer that had given information about secret stores of arms might now be called to answer for his act before the chief traitors of the country. And there is still an important question: Shall some small traitorous creature be suppressed by another small traitor, or by an idealist? In the former case the result would be doubtful and the deed would almost surely be revealed later on. In the second case a petty rascal is put out of the way and the life of an idealist who may be irreplaceable is in jeopardy.
For myself, I believe that small thieves should not be hanged while big thieves are allowed to go free. One day a national tribunal will have to judge and sentence some tens of thousands of organizers who were responsible for the criminal November betrayal and all the consequences that followed on it. Such an example will teach the necessary lesson, once and for ever, to those paltry traitors who revealed to the enemy the places where arms were hidden.
On the grounds of these considerations I steadfastly forbade all participation in secret societies, and I took care that the Storm Detachment should not assume such a character. During those years I kept the National Socialist Movement away from those experiments which were being undertaken by young Germans who for the most part were inspired with a sublime idealism but who became the victims of their own deeds, because they could not ameliorate the lot of their fatherland to the slightest degree.

If then the Storm Detachment must not be either a military defence organization or a secret society, the following conclusions must result:
1. Its training must not be organized from the military standpoint but from the standpoint of what is most practical for party purposes. Seeing that its members must undergo a good physical training, the place of chief importance must not be given to military drill but rather to the practice of sports. I have always considered boxing and ju-jitsu more important than some kind of bad, because mediocre, training in rifle-shooting. If the German nation were presented with a body of young men who had been perfectly trained in athletic sports, who were imbued with an ardent love for their country and a readiness to take the initiative in a fight, then the national State could make an army out of that body within less than two years if it were necessary, provided the cadres already existed. In the actual state of affairs only the Reichswehr could furnish the cadres and not a defence organization that was neither one thing nor the other. Bodily efficiency would develop in the individual a conviction of his superiority and would give him that confidence which is always based only on the consciousness of one's own powers. They must also develop that athletic agility which can be employed as a defensive weapon in the service of the Movement.
2. In order to safeguard the Storm Detachment against any tendency towards secrecy, not only must the uniform be such that it can immediately be recognized by everybody, but the large number of its effectives show the direction in which the Movement is going and which must be known to the whole public. The members of the Storm Detachment must not hold secret gatherings but must march in the open and thus, by their actions, put an end to all legends about a secret organization. In order to keep them away from all temptations towards finding an outlet for their activities in small conspiracies, from the very beginning we had to inculcate in their minds the great idea of the Movement and educate them so thoroughly to the task of defending this idea that their horizon became enlarged and that the individual no longer considered it his mission to remove from circulation some rascal or other, whether big or small, but to devote himself entirely to the task of bringing about the establishment of a new National Socialist People's State. In this way the struggle against the present State was placed on a higher plane than that of petty revenge and small conspiracies. It was elevated to the level of a spiritual struggle on behalf of a philosophical war, for the destruction of Marxism in all its shapes and forms.
3. The form of organization adopted for the Storm Detachment, as well as its uniform and equipment, had to follow different models from those of the old Army. They had to be specially suited to the requirements of the task that was assigned to the Storm Detachment.
These were the ideas I followed in 1920 and 1921. I endeavoured to instil them gradually into the members of the young organization. And the result was that by the midsummer of 1922 we had a goodly number of formations which consisted of a hundred men each. By the late autumn of that year these formations received their distinctive uniforms. There were three events which turned out to be of supreme importance for the subsequent development of the Storm Detachment.
1. The great mass demonstration against the Law for the Protection of the Republic. This demonstration was held in the late summer of 1922 on the Konigs-platz in Munich, by all the patriotic societies. The National Socialist Movement also participated in it. The march-past of our party, in serried ranks, was led by six Munich companies of a hundred men each, followed by the political sections of the Party. Two bands marched with us and about fifteen flags were carried. When the National Socialists arrived at the great square it was already half full, but no flag was flying. Our entry aroused unbounded enthusiasm. I myself had the honour of being one of the speakers who addressed that mass of about sixty thousand people.
The demonstration was an overwhelming success; especially because it was proved for the first time that nationalist Munich could march on the streets, in spite of all threats from the Reds. Members of the organization for the defence of the Red Republic endeavoured to hinder the marching columns by their terrorist activities, but they were scattered by the companies of the Storm Detachment within a few minutes and sent off with bleeding skulls. The National Socialist Movement had then shown for the first time that in future it was determined to exercise the right to march on the streets and thus take this monopoly away from the international traitors and enemies of the country.
The result of that day was an incontestable proof that our ideas for the creation of the Storm Detachment were right, both from the psychological viewpoint and as to the manner in which this body was organized.
On the basis of this success the enlistment progressed so rapidly that within a few weeks the number of Munich companies of a hundred men each became doubled.
2. The expedition to Coburg in October 1922.
Certain People's Societies had decided to hold a German Day at Coburg. I was invited to take part, with the intimation that they wished me to bring a following along. This invitation, which I received at eleven o'clock in the morning, arrived just in time. Within an hour the arrangements for our participation in the German Congress were ready. I picked eight hundred men of the Storm Detachment to accompany me. These were divided into about fourteen companies and had to be brought by special train from Munich to Coburg, which had just voted by plebiscite to be annexed to Bavaria. Corresponding orders were given to other groups of the National Socialist Storm Detachment which had meanwhile been formed in various other localities.
This was the first time that such a special train ran in Germany. At all the places where the new members of the Storm Detachment joined us our train caused a sensation. Many of the people had never seen our flag. And it made a very great impression.
As we arrived at the station in Coburg we were received by a deputation of the organizing committee of the German Day. They announced that it had been 'arranged' at the orders of local trades unions V that is to say, the Independent and Communist Parties V that we should not enter the town with our flags unfurled and our band playing (we had a band consisting of forty-two musicians with us) and that we should not march with closed ranks.
I immediately rejected these unmilitary conditions and did not fail to declare before the gentlemen who had arranged this 'day' how astonished I was at the idea of their negotiating with such people and coming to an agreement with them. Then I announced that the Storm Troops would immediately march into the town in company formation, with our flags flying and the band playing.
And that is what happened.
As we came out into the station yard we were met by a growling and yelling mob of several thousand, that shouted at us: 'Assassins', 'Bandits', 'Robbers', 'Criminals'. These were the choice names which these exemplary founders of the German Republic showered on us. The young Storm Detachment gave a model example of order. The companies fell into formation on the square in front of the station and at first took no notice of the insults hurled at them by the mob. The police were anxious. They did not pilot us to the quarters assigned to us on the outskirts of Coburg, a city quite unknown to us, but to the Hofbrauhaus Keller in the centre of the town. Right and left of our march the tumult raised by the accompanying mob steadily increased. Scarcely had the last company entered the courtyard of the Hofbrauhaus when the huge mass made a rush to get in after them, shouting madly. In order to prevent this, the police closed the gates. Seeing the position was untenable I called the Storm Detachment to attention and then asked the police to open the gates immediately. After a good deal of hesitation, they consented.
We now marched back along the same route as we had come, in the direction of our quarters, and there we had to make a stand against the crowd. As their cries and yells all along the route had failed to disturb the equanimity of our companies, the champions of true Socialism, Equality, and Fraternity now took to throwing stones. That brought our patience to an end. For ten minutes long, blows fell right and left, like a devastating shower of hail. Fifteen minutes later there were no more Reds to be seen in the street.
The collisions which took place when the night came on were more serious. Patrols of the Storm Detachment had discovered National Socialists who had been attacked singly and were in an atrocious state. Thereupon we made short work of the opponents. By the following morning the Red terror, under which Coburg had been suffering for years, was definitely smashed.
Adopting the typically Marxist and Jewish method of spreading falsehoods, leaflets were distributed by hand on the streets, bearing the caption: "Comrades and Comradesses of the International Proletariat." These leaflets were meant to arouse the wrath of the populace. Twisting the facts completely around, they declared that our 'bands of assasins' had commenced 'a war of extermination against the peaceful workers of Coburg'. At half-past one that day there was to be a 'great popular demonstration', at which it was hoped that the workers of the whole district would turn up. I was determined finally to crush this Red terror and so I summoned the Storm Detachment to meet at midday. Their number had now increased to 1,500. I decided to march with these men to the Coburg Festival and to cross the big square where the Red demonstration was to take place. I wanted to see if they would attempt to assault us again. When we entered the square we found that instead of the ten thousand that had been advertised, there were only a few hundred people present. As we approached they remained silent for the most part, and some ran away. Only at certain points along the route some bodies of Reds, who had arrived from outside the city and had not yet come to know us, attempted to start a row. But a few fisticuffs put them to flight. And now one could see how the population, which had for such a long time been so wretchedly intimidated, slowly woke up and recovered their courage. They welcomed us openly, and in the evening, on our return march, spontaneous shouts of jubilation broke out at several points along the route.
At the station the railway employees informed us all of a sudden that our train would not move. Thereupon I had some of the ringleaders told that if this were the case I would have all the Red Party heroes arrested that fell into our hands, that we would drive the train ourselves, but that we would take away with us, in the locomotive and tender and in some of the carriages, a few dozen members of this brotherhood of international solidarity. I did not omit to let those gentry know that if we had to conduct the train the journey would undoubtedly be a very risky adventure and that we might all break our necks. It would be a consolation, however, to know that we should not go to Eternity alone, but in equality and fraternity with the Red gentry.
Thereupon the train departed punctually and we arrived next morning in Munich safe and sound.
Thus at Coburg, for the first time since 1914, the equality of all citizens before the law was re-established. For even if some coxcomb of a higher official should assert today that the State protects the lives of its citizens, at least in those days it was not so. For at that time the citizens had to defend themselves against the representatives of the present State.
At first it was not possible fully to estimate the importance of the consequences which resulted from that day. The victorious Storm Troops had their confidence in themselves considerably reinforced and also their faith in the sagacity of their leaders. Our contemporaries began to pay us special attention and for the first time many recognized the National Socialist Movement as an organization that in all probability was destined to bring the Marxist folly to a deserving end.
Only the democrats lamented the fact that we had not the complaisance to allow our skulls to be cracked and that we had dared, in a democratic Republic, to hit back with fists and sticks at a brutal assault, rather than with pacifist chants.
Generally speaking, the bourgeois Press was partly distressed and partly vulgar, as always. Only a few decent newspapers expressed their satisfaction that at least in one locality the Marxist street bullies had been effectively dealt with.
And in Coburg itself at least a part of the Marxist workers who must be looked upon as misled, learned from the blows of National Socialist fists that these workers were also fighting for ideals, because experience teaches that the human being fights only for something in which he believes and which he loves.
The Storm Detachment itself benefited most from the Coburg events. It grew so quickly in numbers that at the Party Congress in January 1923 six thousand men participated in the ceremony of consecrating the flags and the first companies were fully clad in their new uniform.
Our experience in Coburg proved how essential it is to introduce one distinctive uniform for the Storm Detachment, not only for the purpose of strengthening the esprit de corps but also to avoid confusion and the danger of not recognizing the opponent in a squabble. Up to that time they had merely worn the armlet, but now the tunic and the well-known cap were added.
But the Coburg experience had also another important result. We now determined to break the Red Terror in all those localities where for many years it had prevented men of other views from holding their meetings. We were determined to restore the right of free assembly. From that time onwards we brought our battalions together in such places and little by little the red citadels of Bavaria, one after another, fell before the National Socialist propaganda. The Storm Troops became more and more adept at their job. They increasingly lost all semblance of an aimless and lifeless defence movement and came out into the light as an active militant organization, fighting for the establishment of a new German State.
This logical development continued until March 1923. Then an event occurred which made me divert the Movement from the course hitherto followed and introduce some changes in its outer formation.
In the first months of 1923 the French occupied the Ruhr district. The consequence of this was of great importance in the development of the Storm Detachment.
It is not yet possible, nor would it be in the interest of the nation, to write or speak openly and freely on the subject. I shall speak of it only as far as the matter has been dealt with in public discussions and thus brought to the knowledge of everybody.
The occupation of the Ruhr district, which did not come as a surprise to us, gave grounds for hoping that Germany would at last abandon its cowardly policy of submission and therewith give the defensive associations a definite task to fulfil. The Storm Detachment also, which now numbered several thousand of robust and vigorous young men, should not be excluded from this national service. During the spring and summer of 1923 it was transformed into a fighting military organization. It is to this reorganization that we must in great part attribute the later developments that took place during 1923, in so far as it affected our Movement.
Elsewhere I shall deal in broad outline with the development of events in 1923. Here I wish only to state that the transformation of the Storm Detachment at that time must have been detrimental to the interests of the Movement if the conditions that had motivated the change were not to be carried into effect, namely, the adoption of a policy of active resistance against France.
The events which took place at the close of 1923, terrible as they may appear at first sight, were almost a necessity if looked at from a higher standpoint; because, in view of the attitude taken by the Government of the German Reich, conversion of the Storm Troops into a military force would be meaningless and thus a transformation which would also be harmful to the Movement was ended at one stroke. At the same time it was made possible for us to reconstruct at the point where we had been diverted from the proper course.
In the year 1925 the German National Socialist Labour Party was re-founded and had to organize and train its Storm Detachment once again according to the principles I have laid down. It must return to the original idea and once more it must consider its most essential task to function as the instrument of defence and reinforcement in the spiritual struggle to establish the ideals of the Movement.
The Storm Detachment must not be allowed to sink to the level of something in the nature of a defence organization or a secret society. Steps must be taken rather to make it a vanguard of 100,000 men in the struggle for the National Socialist ideal which is based on the profound principle of a People's State.

----------

[Previous Chapter (The Strong Man is Mightiest Alone)] [Home] [Next Chapter (Federalism is a Mask)]
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter X Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter X: Federalism as a Mask

In the winter of 1919, and still more in the spring and summer of 1920, the young Party felt bound to take up a definite stand on a question which already had become quite serious during the War. In the first volume of this book I have briefly recorded certain facts which I had personally witnessed and which foreboded the break-up of Germany. In describing these facts I made reference to the special nature of the propaganda which was directed by the English as well as the French towards reopening the breach that had existed between North and South in Germany. In the spring of 1915 there appeared the first of a series of leaflets which was systematically followed up and the aim of which was to arouse feeling against Prussia as being solely responsible for the war. Up to 1916 this system had been developed and perfected in a cunning and shameless manner. Appealing to the basest of human instincts, this propaganda endeavoured to arouse the wrath of the South Germans against the North Germans and after a short time it bore fruit. Persons who were then in high positions under the Government and in the Army, especially those attached to headquarters in the Bavarian Army, merited the just reproof of having blindly neglected their duty and failed to take the necessary steps to counter such propaganda. But nothing was done. On the contrary, in some quarters it did not appear to be quite unwelcome and probably they were short-sighted enough to think that such propaganda might help along the development of unification in Germany but even that it might automatically bring about consolidation of the federative forces. Scarcely ever in history was such a wicked neglect more wickedly avenged. The weakening of Prussia, which they believed would result from this propaganda, affected the whole of Germany. It resulted in hastening the collapse which not only wrecked Germany as a whole but even more particularly the federal states.
In that town where the artificially created hatred against Prussia raged most violently the revolt against the reigning House was the beginning of the Revolution.
It would be a mistake to think that the enemy propaganda was exclusively responsible for creating an anti-Prussian feeling and that there were no reasons which might excuse the people for having listened to this propaganda. The incredible fashion in which the national economic interests were organized during the War, the absolutely crazy system of centralization which made the whole Reich its ward and exploited the Reich, furnished the principal grounds for the growth of that anti-Prussian feeling. The average citizen looked upon the companies for the placing of war contracts, all of which had their headquarters in Berlin, as identical with Berlin and Berlin itself as identical with Prussia. The average citizen did not know that the organization of these robber companies, which were called War Companies, was not in the hands of Berlin or Prussia and not even in German hands at all. People recognized only the gross irregularities and the continual encroachments of that hated institution in the Metropolis of the Reich and directed their anger towards Berlin and Prussia, all the more because in certain quarters (the Bavarian Government) nothing was done to correct this attitude, but it was even welcomed with silent rubbing of hands.
The Jew was far too shrewd not to understand that the infamous campaign which he had organized, under the cloak of War Companies, for plundering the German nation would and must eventually arouse opposition. As long as that opposition did not spring directly at his own throat he had no reason to be afraid. Hence he decided that the best way of forestalling an outbreak on the part of the enraged and desperate masses would be to inflame their wrath and at the same time give it another outlet.
Let Bavaria quarrel as much as it liked with Prussia and Prussia with Bavaria. The more, the merrier. This bitter strife between the two states assured peace to the Jew. Thus public attention was completely diverted from the international maggot in the body of the nation; indeed, he seemed to have been forgotten. Then when there came a danger that level-headed people, of whom there are many to be found also in Bavaria, would advise a little more reserve and a more judicious evaluation of things, thus calming the rage against Prussia, all the Jew had to do in Berlin was to stage a new provocation and await results. Every time that was done all those who had profiteered out of the conflict between North and South filled their lungs and again fanned the flame of indignation until it became a blaze.
It was a shrewd and expert manoeuvre on the part of the Jew, to set the different branches of the German people quarrelling with one another, so that their attention would be turned away from himself and he could plunder them all the more completely.
Then came the Revolution.
Until the year 1918, or rather until the November of that year, the average German citizen, particularly the less educated lower middle-class and the workers, did not rightly understand what was happening and did not realize what must be the inevitable consequences, especially for Bavaria, of this internecine strife between the branches of the German people; but at least those sections which called themselves 'National' ought to have clearly perceived these consequences on the day that the Revolution broke out. For the moment the coup d'etat had succeeded, the leader and organizer of the Revolution in Bavaria put himself forward as the defender of 'Bavarian' interests. The international Jew, Kurt Eisner, began to play off Bavaria against Prussia. This Oriental was just about the last person in the world that could be pointed to as the logical defender of Bavarian interests. In his trade as newspaper reporter he had wandered from place to place all over Germany and to him it was a matter of sheer indifference whether Bavaria or any other particular part of God's whole world continued to exist.
In deliberately giving the revolutionary rising in Bavaria the character of an offensive against Prussia, Kurt Eisner was not acting in the slightest degree from the standpoint of Bavarian interests, but merely as the commissioned representative of Jewry. He exploited existing instincts and antipathies in Bavaria as a means which would help to make the dismemberment of Germany all the more easy. When once dismembered, the Reich would fall an easy prey to Bolshevism.
The tactics employed by him were continued for a time after his death. The Marxists, who had always derided and exploited the individual German states and their princes, now suddenly appealed, as an 'Independent Party' to those sentiments and instincts which had their strongest roots in the families of the reigning princes and the individual states.
The fight waged by the Bavarian Soviet Republic against the military contingents that were sent to free Bavaria from its grasp was represented by the Marxist propagandists as first of all the 'Struggle of the Bavarian Worker' against 'Prussian Militarism.' This explains why it was that the suppression of the Soviet Republic in Munich did not have the same effect there as in the other German districts. Instead of recalling the masses to a sense of reason, it led to increased bitterness and anger against Prussia.
The art of the Bolshevik agitators, in representing the suppression of the Bavarian Soviet Republic as a victory of 'Prussian Militarism' over the 'Anti-militarists' and 'Anti-Prussian' people of Bavaria, bore rich fruit. Whereas on the occasion of the elections to the Bavarian Legislative Diet, Kurt Eisner did not have ten thousand followers in Munich and the Communist party less than three thousand, after the fall of the Bavarian Republic the votes given to the two parties together amounted to nearly one hundred thousand.
It was then that I personally began to combat that crazy incitement of some branches of the German people against other branches.
I believe that never in my life did I undertake a more unpopular task than I did when I took my stand against the anti-Prussian incitement. During the Soviet regime in Munich great public meetings were held at which hatred against the rest of Germany, but particularly against Prussia, was roused up to such a pitch that a North German would have risked his life in attending one of those meetings. These meetings often ended in wild shouts: "Away from Prussia", "Down with the Prussians", "War against Prussia", and so on. This feeling was openly expressed in the Reichstag by a particularly brilliant defender of Bavarian sovereign rights when he said: "Rather die as a Bavarian than rot as a Prussian".
One should have attended some of the meetings held at that time in order to understand what it meant for one when, for the first time and surrounded by only a handful of friends, I raised my voice against this folly at a meeting held in the Munich Lowenbrau Keller. Some of my War comrades stood by me then. And it is easy to imagine how we felt when that raging crowd, which had lost all control of its reason, roared at us and threatened to kill us. During the time that we were fighting for the country the same crowd were for the most part safely ensconced in the rear positions or were peacefully circulating at home as deserters and shirkers. It is true that that scene turned out to be of advantage to me. My small band of comrades felt for the first time absolutely united with me and readily swore to stick by me through life and death.
These conflicts, which were constantly repeated in 1919, seemed to become more violent soon after the beginning of 1920. There were meetings V I remember especially one in the Wagner Hall in the Sonnenstrasse in Munich V during the course of which my group, now grown much larger, had to defend themselves against assaults of the most violent character. It happened more than once that dozens of my followers were mishandled, thrown to the floor and stamped upon by the attackers and were finally thrown out of the hall more dead than alive.
The struggle which I had undertaken, first by myself alone and afterwards with the support of my war comrades, was now continued by the young movement, I might say almost as a sacred mission.
I am proud of being able to say today that we V depending almost exclusively on our followers in Bavaria V were responsible for putting an end, slowly but surely, to the coalition of folly and treason. I say folly and treason because, although convinced that the masses who joined in it meant well but were stupid, I cannot attribute such simplicity as an extenuating circumstance in the case of the organizers and their abetters. I then looked upon them,and still look upon them today, as traitors in the payment of France. In one case, that of Dorten, history has already pronounced its judgment.
The situation became specially dangerous at that time by reason of the fact that they were very astute in their ability to cloak their real tendencies, by insisting primarily on their federative intentions and claiming that those were the sole motives of the agitation. Of course it is quite obvious that the agitation against Prussia had nothing to do with federalism. Surely 'Federal Activities' is not the phrase with which to describe an effort to dissolve and dismember another federal state. For an honest federalist, for whom the formula used by Bismarck to define his idea of the Reich is not a counterfeit phrase, could not in the same breath express the desire to cut off portions of the Prussian State, which was created or at least completed by Bismarck. Nor could he publicly support such a separatist attempt.
What an outcry would be raised in Munich if some prussian conservative party declared itself in favour of detaching Franconia from Bavaria or took public action in demanding and promoting such a separatist policy. Nevertheless, one can only have sympathy for all those real and honest federalists who did not see through this infamous swindle, for they were its principal victims. By distorting the federalist idea in such a way its own champions prepared its grave. One cannot make propaganda for a federalist configuration of the Reich by debasing and abusing and besmirching the essential element of such a political structure, namely Prussia, and thus making such a Confederation impossible, if it ever had been possible. It is all the more incredible by reason of the fact that the fight carried on by those so-called federalists was directed against that section of the Prussian people which was the last that could be looked upon as connected with the November democracy. For the abuse and attacks of these so-called federalists were not levelled against the fathers of the Weimar Constitution V the majority of whom were South Germans or Jews V but against those who represented the old conservative Prussia, which was the antipodes of the Weimar Constitution. The fact that the directors of this campaign were careful not to touch the Jews is not to be wondered at and perhaps gives the key to the whole riddle.
Before the Revolution the Jew was successful in distracting attention from himself and his War Companies by inciting the masses, and especially the Bavarians, against Prussia. Similarly he felt obliged, after the Revolution, to find some way of camouflaging his new plunder campaign which was nine or ten times greater. And again he succeeded, in this case by provoking the so-called 'national' elements against one another: the conservative Bavarians against the Prussians, who were just as conservative. He acted again with extreme cunning, inasmuch as he who held the reins of Prussia's destiny in his hands provoked such crude and tactless aggressions that again and again they set the blood boiling in those who were being continually duped. Never against the Jew, however, but always the German against his own brother. The Bavarian did not see the Berlin of four million industrious and efficient working people, but only the lazy and decadent Berlin which is to be found in the worst quarters of the West End. And his antipathy was not directed against this West End of Berlin but against the 'Prussian' city.
In many cases it tempted one to despair.
The ability which the Jew has displayed in turning public attention away from himself and giving it another direction may be studied also in what is happening today.
In 1918 there was nothing like an organized anti-Semitic feeling. I still remember the difficulties we encountered the moment we mentioned the Jew. We were either confronted with dumb-struck faces or else a lively and hefty antagonism. The efforts we made at the time to point out the real enemy to the public seemed to be doomed to failure. But then things began to change for the better, though only very slowly. The 'League for Defence and Offence' was defectively organized but at least it had the great merit of opening up the Jewish question once again. In the winter of 1918V1919 a kind of anti-semitism began slowly to take root. Later on the National Socialist Movement presented the Jewish problem in a new light. Taking the question beyond the restricted circles of the upper classes and small bourgeoisie we succeeded in transforming it into the driving motive of a great popular movement. But the moment we were successful in placing this problem before the German people in the light of an idea that would unite them in one struggle the Jew reacted. He resorted to his old tactics. With amazing alacrity he hurled the torch of discord into the patriotic movement and opened a rift there. In bringing forward the ultramontane question and in the mutual quarrels that it gave rise to between Catholicism and Protestantism lay the sole possibility, as conditions then were, of occupying public attention with other problems and thus ward off the attack which had been concentrated against Jewry. The men who dragged our people into this controversy can never make amends for the crime they then committed against the nation. Anyhow, the Jew has attained the ends he desired. Catholics and Protestants are fighting with one another to their hearts' content, while the enemy of Aryan humanity and all Christendom is laughing up his sleeve.
Once it was possible to occupy the attention of the public for several years with the struggle between federalism and unification, wearing out their energies in this mutual friction while the Jew trafficked in the freedom of the nation and sold our country to the masters of international high finance. So in our day he has succeeded again, this time by raising ructions between the two German religious denominations while the foundations on which both rest are being eaten away and destroyed through the poison injected by the international and cosmopolitan Jew.
Look at the ravages from which our people are suffering daily as a result of being contaminated with Jewish blood. Bear in mind the fact that this poisonous contamination can be eliminated from the national body only after centuries, or perhaps never. Think further of how the process of racial decomposition is debasing and in some cases even destroying the fundamental Aryan qualities of our German people, so that our cultural creativeness as a nation is gradually becoming impotent and we are running the danger, at least in our great cities, of falling to the level where Southern Italy is today. This pestilential adulteration of the blood, of which hundreds of thousands of our people take no account, is being systematically practised by the Jew today. Systematically these negroid parasites in our national body corrupt our innocent fair-haired girls and thus destroy something which can no longer be replaced in this world.
The two Christian denominations look on with indifference at the profanation and destruction of a noble and unique creature who was given to the world as a gift of God's grace. For the future of the world, however, it does not matter which of the two triumphs over the other, the Catholic or the Protestant. But it does matter whether Aryan humanity survives or perishes. And yet the two Christian denominations are not contending against the destroyer of Aryan humanity but are trying to destroy one another. Everybody who has the right kind of feeling for his country is solemnly bound, each within his own denomination, to see to it that he is not constantly talking about the Will of God merely from the lips but that in actual fact he fulfils the Will of God and does not allow God's handiwork to be debased. For it was by the Will of God that men were made of a certain bodily shape, were given their natures and their faculties. Whoever destroys His work wages war against God's Creation and God's Will. Therefore everyone should endeavour, each in his own denomination of course, and should consider it as his first and most solemn duty to hinder any and everyone whose conduct tends, either by word or deed, to go outside his own religious body and pick a quarrel with those of another denomination. For, in view of the religious schism that exists in Germany, to attack the essential characteristics of one denomination must necessarily lead to a war of extermination between the two Christian denominations. Here there can be no comparison between our position and that of France, or Spain or Italy. In those three countries one may, for instance, make propaganda for the side that is fighting against ultramontanism without thereby incurring the danger of a national rift among the French, or Spanish or Italian people. In Germany, however, that cannot be so, for here the Protestants would also take part in such propaganda. And thus the defence which elsewhere only Catholics organize against clerical aggression in political matters would assume with us the character of a Protestant attack against Catholicism. What may be tolerated by the faithful in one denomination even when it seems unjust to them, will at once be indignantly rejected and opposed on a priori grounds if it should come from the militant leaders of another denomination. This is so true that even men who would be ready and willing to fight for the removal of manifest grievances within their own religious denomination will drop their own fight and turn their activities against the outsider the moment the abolition of such grievances is counselled or demanded by one who is not of the same faith. They consider it unjustified and inadmissible and incorrect for outsiders to meddle in matters which do not affect them at all. Such attempts are not excused even when they are inspired by a feeling for the supreme interests of the national community; because even in our day religious feelings still have deeper roots than all feeling for political and national expediency. That cannot be changed by setting one denomination against another in bitter conflict. It can be changed only if, through a spirit of mutual tolerance, the nation can be assured of a future the greatness of which will gradually operate as a conciliating factor in the sphere of religion also. I have no hesitation in saying that in those men who seek today to embroil the patriotic movement in religious quarrels I see worse enemies of my country than the international communists are. For the National Socialist Movement has set itself to the task of converting those communists. But anyone who goes outside the ranks of his own Movement and tends to turn it away from the fulfilment of its mission is acting in a manner that deserves the severest condemnation. He is acting as a champion of Jewish interests, whether consciously or unconsciously does not matter. For it is in the interests of the Jews today that the energies of the patriotic movement should be squandered in a religious conflict, because it is beginning to be dangerous for the Jews. I have purposely used the phrase about squandering the energies of the Movement, because nobody but some person who is entirely ignorant of history could imagine that this movement can solve a question which the greatest statesmen have tried for centuries to solve, and tried in vain.
Anyhow the facts speak for themselves. The men who suddenly discovered, in 1924, that the highest mission of the patriotic movement was to fight ultramontanism, have not succeeded in smashing ultramontanism, but they succeeded in splitting the patriotic movement. I have to guard against the possibility of some immature brain arising in the patriotic movement which thinks that it can do what even a Bismarck failed to do. It will be always one of the first duties of those who are directing the National Socialist Movement to oppose unconditionally any attempt to place the National Socialist Movement at the service of such a conflict. And anybody who conducts a propaganda with that end in view must be expelled forthwith from its ranks.
As a matter of fact we succeeded until the autumn of 1923 in keeping our movement away from such controversies. The most devoted Protestant could stand side by side with the most devoted Catholic in our ranks without having his conscience disturbed in the slightest as far as concerned his religious convictions. The bitter struggle which both waged in common against the wrecker of Aryan humanity taught them natural respect and esteem. And it was just in those years that our movement had to engage in a bitter strife with the Centre Party not for religious ends but for national, racial, political and economic ends. The success we then achieved showed that we were right, but it does not speak today in favour of those who thought they knew better.
In recent years things have gone so far that patriotic circles, in god-forsaken blindness of their religious strife, could not recognize the folly of their conduct even from the fact that atheist Marxist newspapers advocated the cause of one religious denomination or the other, according as it suited Marxist interests, so as to create confusion through slogans and declarations which were often immeasurably stupid, now molesting the one party and again the other, and thus poking the fire to keep the blaze at its highest.
But in the case of a people like the Germans, whose history has so often shown them capable of fighting for phantoms to the point of complete exhaustion, every war-cry is a mortal danger. By these slogans our people have often been drawn away from the real problems of their existence. While we were exhausting our energies in religious wars the others were acquiring their share of the world. And while the patriotic movement is debating with itself whether the ultramontane danger be greater than the Jewish, or vice versa, the Jew is destroying the racial basis of our existence and thereby annihilating our people. As far as regards that kind of 'patriotic' warrior, on behalf of the National Socialist Movement and therefore of the German people I pray with all my heart: "Lord, preserve us from such friends, and then we can easily deal with our enemies."

The controversy over federation and unification, so cunningly propagandized by the Jews in 1919-1920 and onwards, forced National Socialism, which repudiated the quarrel, to take up a definite stand in relation to the essential problem concerned in it. Ought Germany to be a confederacy or a military State? What is the practical significance of these terms? To me it seems that the second question is more important than the first, because it is fundamental to the understanding of the whole problem and also because the answer to it may help to clear up confusion and therewith have a conciliating effect.
What is a Confederacy?
By a Confederacy we mean a union of sovereign states which of their own free will and in virtue of their sovereignty come together and create a collective unit, ceding to that unit as much of their own sovereign rights as will render the existence of the union possible and will guarantee it.
But the theoretical formula is not wholly put into practice by any confederacy that exists today. And least of all by the American Union, where it is impossible to speak of original sovereignty in regard to the majority of the states. Many of them were not included in the federal complex until long after it had been established. The states that make up the American Union are mostly in the nature of territories, more or less, formed for technical administrative purposes, their boundaries having in many cases been fixed in the mapping office. Originally these states did not and could not possess sovereign rights of their own. Because it was the Union that created most of the so-called states. Therefore the sovereign rights, often very comprehensive, which were left, or rather granted, to the various territories correspond not only to the whole character of the Confederation but also to its vast space, which is equivalent to the size of a Continent. Consequently, in speaking of the United States of America one must not consider them as sovereign states but as enjoying rights or, better perhaps, autarchic powers, granted to them and guaranteed by the Constitution.
Nor does our definition adequately express the condition of affairs in Germany. It is true that in Germany the individual states existed as states before the Reich and that the Reich was formed from them. The Reich, however, was not formed by the voluntary and equal co-operation of the individual states, but rather because the state of Prussia gradually acquired a position of hegemony over the others. The difference in the territorial area alone between the German states prevents any comparison with the American Union. The great difference in territorial area between the very small German states that then existed and the larger, or even still more the largest, demonstrates the inequality of their achievements and shows that they could not take an equal part in founding and shaping the federal Empire. In the case of most of these individual states it cannot be maintained that they ever enjoyed real sovereignty; and the term 'State Sovereignty' was really nothing more than an administrative formula which had no inner meaning. As a matter of fact, not only developments in the past but also in our own time wiped out several of these so-called 'Sovereign States' and thus proved in the most definite way how frail these 'sovereign' state formations were.
I cannot deal here with the historical question of how these individual states came to be established, but I must call attention to the fact that hardly in any case did their frontiers coincide with ethical frontiers of the inhabitants. They were purely political phenomena which for the most part emerged during the sad epoch when the German Empire was in a state of exhaustion and was dismembered. They represented both cause and effect in the process of exhaustion and partition of our fatherland.
The Constitution of the old Reich took all this into account, at least up to a certain degree, in so far as the individual states were not accorded equal representation in the Reichstag, but a representation proportionate to their respective areas, their actual importance and the role which they played in the formation of the Reich.
The sovereign rights which the individual states renounced in order to form the Reich were voluntarily ceded only to a very small degree. For the most part they had no practical existence or they were simply taken by Prussia under the pressure of her preponderant power. The principle followed by Bismarck was not to give the Reich what he could take from the individual states but to demand from the individual states only what was absolutely necessary for the Reich. A moderate and wise policy. On the one side Bismarck showed the greatest regard for customs and traditions; on the other side his policy secured for the new Reich from its foundation onwards a great measure of love and willing co-operation. But it would be a fundamental error to attribute Bismarck's decision to any conviction on his part that the Reich was thus acquiring all the rights of sovereignty which would suflice for all time. That was far from Bismarck's idea. On the contrary, he wished to leave over for the future what it would be difficult to carry through at the moment and might not have been readily agreed to by the individual states. He trusted to the levelling effect of time and to the pressure exercised by the process of evolution, the steady action of which appeared more effective than an attempt to break the resistance which the individual states offered at the moment. By this policy he showed his great ability in the art of statesmanship. And, as a matter of fact, the sovereignty of the Reich has continually increased at the cost of the sovereignty of the individual states. The passing of time has achieved what Bismarck hoped it would.
The German collapse and the abolition of the monarchical form of government necessarily hastened this development. The German federal states, which had not been grounded on ethnical foundations but arose rather out of political conditions, were bound to lose their importance the moment the monarchical form of government and the dynasties connected with it were abolished, for it was to the spirit inherent in these that the individual states owned their political origin and development. Thus deprived of their internal raison d'etre, they renounced all right to survival and were induced by purely practical reasons to fuse with their neighbours or else they joined the more powerful states out of their own free will. That proved in a striking manner how extraordinarily frail was the actual sovereignty these small phantom states enjoyed, and it proved too how lightly they were estimated by their own citizens.
Though the abolition of the monarchical regime and its representatives had dealt a hard blow to the federal character of the Reich, still more destructive, from the federal point of view, was the acceptance of the obligations that resulted from the 'peace' treaty.
It was only natural and logical that the federal states should lose all sovereign control over the finances the moment the Reich, in consequence of a lost war, was subjected to financial obligations which could never be guaranteed through separate treaties with the individual states. The subsequent steps which led the Reich to take over the posts and railways were an enforced advance in the process of enslaving our people, a process which the peace treaties gradually developed. The Reich was forced to secure possession of resources which had to be constantly increased in order to satisfy the demands made by further extortions.
The form in which the powers of the Reich were thus extended to embrace the federal states was often ridiculously stupid, but in itself the procedure was logical and natural. The blame for it must be laid at the door of these men and those parties that failed in the hour of need to concentrate all their energies in an effort to bring the war to a victorious issue. The guilt lies on those parties which, especially in Bavaria, catered for their own egotistic interests during the war and refused to the Reich what the Reich had to requisition to a tenfold greater measure when the war was lost. The retribution of History! Rarely has the vengeance of Heaven followed so closely on the crime as it did in this case. Those same parties which, a few years previously, placed the interests of their own states V especially in Bavaria V before those of the Reich had now to look on passively while the pressure of events forced the Reich, in its own interests, to abolish the existence of the individual states. They were the victims of their own defaults.
It was an unparalleled example of hypocrisy to raise the cry of lamentation over the loss which the federal states suffered in being deprived of their sovereign rights. This cry was raised before the electorate, for it is only to the electorate that our contemporary parties address themselves. But these parties, without exception, outbid one another in accepting a policy of fulfilment which, by the sheer force of circumstances and in its ultimate consequences, could not but lead to a profound alteration in the internal structure of the Reich. Bismarck's Reich was free and unhampered by any obligations towards the outside world.
Bismarck's Reich never had to shoulder such heavy and entirely unproductive obligations as those to which Germany was subjected under the Dawes Plan. Also in domestic affairs Bismarck's Reich was able to limit its powers to a few matters that were absolutely necessary for its existence. Therefore it could dispense with the necessity of a financial control over these states and could live from their contributions. On the other side the relatively small financial tribute which the federal states had to pay to the Reich induced them to welcome its existence. But it is untrue and unjust to state now, as certain propagandists do, that the federal states are displeased with the Reich merely because of their financial subjection to it. No, that is not how the matter really stands. The lack of sympathy for the political idea embodied in the Reich is not due to the loss of sovereign rights on the part of the individual states. It is much more the result of the deplorable fashion in which the present regime cares for the interests of the German people. Despite all the celebrations in honour of the national flag and the Constitution, every section of the German people feels that the present Reich is not in accordance with its heart's desire. And the Law for the Protection of the Republic may prevent outrages against republican institutions, but it will not gain the love of one single German. In its constant anxiety to protect itself against its own citizens by means of laws and sentences of imprisonment, the Republic has aroused sharp and humiliating criticism of all republican institutions as such.
For another reason also it is untrue to say, as certain parties affirm today, that the Reich has ceased to be popular on account of its overbearing conduct in regard to certain sovereign rights which the individual states had heretofore enjoyed. Supposing the Reich had not extended its authority over the individual states, there is no reason to believe that it would find more favour among those states if the general obligations remained so heavy as they now are. On the contrary, if the individual states had to pay their respective shares of the highly increased tribute which the Reich has to meet today in order to fulfil the provisions of the Versailles Dictate, the hostility towards the Reich would be infinitely greater. For then not only would it prove difficult to collect the respective contributions due to the Reich from the federal states, but coercive methods would have to be employed in making the collections. The Republic stands on the footing of the peace treaties and has neither the courage nor the intention to break them. That being so, it must observe the obligations which the peace treaties have imposed on it. The responsibility for this situation is to be attributed solely to those parties who preach unceasingly to the patient electoral masses on the necessity of maintaining the autonomy of the federal states, while at the same time they champion and demand of the Reich a policy which must necessarily lead to the suppression of even the very last of those so-called 'sovereign' rights.
I say necessarily because the present Reich has no other possible means of bearing the burden of charges which an insane domestic and foreign policy has laid on it. Here still another wedge is placed on the former, to drive it in still deeper. Every new debt which the Reich contracts, through the criminal way in which the interests of Germany are represented vis-a-vis foreign countries, necessitates a new and stronger blow which drives the under wedges still deeper, That blow demands another step in the progressive abolition of the sovereign rights of the individual states, so as not to allow the germs of opposition to rise up into activity or even to exist.
The chief characteristic difference between the policy of the present Reich and that of former times lies in this: The old Reich gave freedom to its people at home and showed itself strong towards the outside world, whereas the Republic shows itself weak towards the stranger and oppresses its own citizens at home. In both cases one attitude determines the other. A vigorous national State does not need to make many laws for the interior, because of the affection and attachment of its citizens. The international servile State can live only by coercing its citizens to render it the services it demands. And it is a piece of impudent falsehood for the present regime to speak of 'Free citizens'. Only the old Germany could speak in that manner. The present Republic is a colony of slaves at the service of the stranger. At best it has subjects, but not citizens. Hence it does not possess a national flag but only a trade mark, introduced and protected by official decree and legislative measures. This symbol, which is the Gessler's cap of German Democracy, will always remain alien to the spirit of our people. On its side, the Republic having no sense of tradition or respect for past greatness, dragged the symbol of the past in the mud, but it will be surprised one day to discover how superficial is the devotion of its citizens to its own symbol. The Republic has given to itself the character of an intermezzo in German history. And so this State is bound constantly to restrict more and more the sovereign rights of the individual states, not only for general reasons of a financial character but also on principle. For by enforcing a policy of financial blackmail, to squeeze the last ounce of substance out of its people, it is forced also to take their last rights away from them, lest the general discontent may one day flame up into open rebellion.
We, National Socialists, would reverse this formula and would adopt the following axiom: A strong national Reich which recognizes and protects to the largest possible measure the rights of its citizens both within and outside its frontiers can allow freedom to reign at home without trembling for the safety of the State. On the other hand, a strong national Government can intervene to a considerable degree in the liberties of the individual subject as well as in the liberties of the constituent states without thereby weakening the ideal of the Reich; and it can do this while recognizing its responsibility for the ideal of the Reich, because in these particular acts and measures the individual citizen recognizes a means of promoting the prestige of the nation as a whole.
Of course, every State in the world has to face the question of unification in its internal organization. And Germany is no exception in this matter. Nowadays it is absurd to speak of 'statal sovereignty' for the constituent states of the Reich, because that has already become impossible on account of the ridiculously small size of so many of these states. In the sphere of commerce as well as that of administration the importance of the individual states has been steadily decreasing. Modern means of communication and mechanical progress have been increasingly restricting distance and space. What was once a State is today only a province and the territory covered by a modern State had once the importance of a continent. The purely technical difficulty of administering a State like Germany is not greater than that of governing a province like Brandenburg a hundred years ago. And today it is easier to cover the distance from Munich to Berlin than it was to cover the distance from Munich to Starnberg a hundred years ago. In view of the modern means of transport, the whole territory of the Reich today is smaller than that of certain German federal states at the time of the Napoleonic wars. To close one's eyes to the consequences of these facts means to live in the past. There always were, there are and always will be, men who do this. They may retard but they cannot stop the revolutions of history.
We, National Socialists, must not allow the consequences of that truth to pass by us unnoticed. In these matters also we must not permit ourselves to be misled by the phrases of our so-called national bourgeois parties. I say 'phrases', because these same parodies do not seriously believe that it is possible for them to carry out their proposals, and because they themselves are the chief culprits and also the accomplices responsible for the present state of affairs. Especially in Bavaria, the demands for a halt in the process of centralization can be no more than a party move behind which there is no serious idea. If these parties ever had to pass from the realm of phrase-making into that of practical deeds they would present a sorry spectacle. Every so-called 'Robbery of Sovereign Rights' from Bavaria by the Reich has met with no practical resistance, except for some fatuous barking by way of protest. Indeed, when anyone seriously opposed the madness that was shown in carrying out this system of centralization he was told by those same parties that he understood nothing of the nature and needs of the State today. They slandered him and pronounced him anathema and persecuted him until he was either shut up in prison or illegally deprived of the right of public speech. In the light of these facts our followers should become all the more convinced of the profound hypocrisy which characterizes these so-called federalist circles. To a certain extent they use the federalist doctrine just as they use the name of religion, merely as a means of promoting their own base party interests.

A certain unification, especially in the field of transport., appears logical. But we, National Socialists, feel it our duty to oppose with all our might such a development in the modern State, especially when the measures proposed are solely for the purpose of screening a disastrous foreign policy and making it possible. And just because the present Reich has threatened to take over the railways, the posts, the finances, etc., not from the high standpoint of a national policy, but in order to have in its hands the means and pledges for an unlimited policy of fulfilment V for that reason we, National Socialists, must take every step that seems suitable to obstruct and, if possible, definitely to prevent such a policy. We must fight against the present system of amalgamating institutions that are vitally important for the existence of our people, because this system is being adopted solely to facilitate the payment of milliards and the transference of pledges to the stranger, under the post-War provisions which our politicians have accepted.
For these reasons also the National Socialist Movement has to take up a stand against such tendencies.
Moreover, we must oppose such centralization because in domestic affairs it helps to reinforce a system of government which in all its manifestations has brought the greatest misfortunes on the German nation. The present Jewish-Democratic Reich, which has become a veritable curse for the German people, is seeking to negative the force of the criticism offered by all the federal states which have not yet become imbued with the spirit of the age, and is trying to carry out this policy by crushing them to the point of annihilation. In face of this we National Socialists must try to ground the opposition of the individual states on such a basis that it will be able to operate with a good promise of success. We must do this by transforming the struggle against centralization into something that will be an expression of the higher interests of the German nation as such. Therefore, while the Bavarian Populist Party, acting from its own narrow and particularist standpoint, fights to maintain the 'special rights' of the Bavarian State, we ought to stand on quite a different ground in fighting for the same rights. Our grounds ought to be those of the higher national interests in opposition to the November Democracy.
A still further reason for opposing a centralizing process of that kind arises from the certain conviction that in great part this so-called nationalization does not make for unification at all and still less for simplification. In many cases it is adopted simply as a means of removing from the sovereign control of the individual states certain institutions which they wish to place in the hands of the revolutionary parties. In German History favouritism has never been of so base a character as in the democratic republic. A great portion of this centralization today is the work of parties which once promised that they would open the way for the promotion of talent, meaning thereby that they would fill those posts and offices entirely with their own partisans. Since the foundation of the Republic the Jews especially have been obtaining positions in the economic institutions taken over by the Reich and also positions in the national administration, so that the one and the other have become preserves of Jewry.
For tactical reasons, this last consideration obliges us to watch with the greatest attention every further attempt at centralization and fight it at each step. But in doing this our standpoint must always be that of a lofty national policy and never a pettifogging particularism.
This last observation is necessary, lest an opinion might arise among our own followers that we do not accredit to the Reich the right of incorporating in itself a sovereignty which is superior to that of the constituent states. As regards this right we cannot and must not entertain the slightest doubt. Because for us the State is nothing but a form. Its substance, or content, is the essential thing. And that is the nation, the people. It is clear therefore that every other interest must be subordinated to the supreme interests of the nation. In particular we cannot accredit to any other state a sovereign power and sovereign rights within the confines of the nation and the Reich, which represents the nation. The absurdity which some federal states commit by maintaining 'representations' abroad and corresponding foreign 'representations' among themselves V that must cease and will cease. Until this happens we cannot be surprised if certain foreign countries are dubious about the political unity of the Reich and act accordingly. The absurdity of these 'representations' is all the greater because they do harm and do not bring the slightest advantage. If the interests of a German abroad cannot be protected by the ambassador of the Reich, much less can they be protected by the minister from some small federal state which appears ridiculous in the framework of the present world order. The real truth is that these small federal states are envisaged as points of attack for attempts at secession, which prospect is always pleasing to a certain foreign State. We, National Socialists, must not allow some noble caste which has become effete with age to occupy an ambassadorial post abroad, with the idea that by engrafting one of its withered branches in new soil the green leaves may sprout again. Already in the time of the old Reich our diplomatic representatives abroad were such a sorry lot that a further trial of that experience would be out of the question.
It is certain that in the future the importance of the individual states will be transferred to the sphere of our cultural policy. The monarch who did most to make Bavaria an important centre was not an obstinate particularist with anti-German tendencies, but Ludwig I who was as much devoted to the ideal of German greatness as he was to that of art. His first consideration was to use the powers of the state to develop the cultural position of Bavaria and not its political power. And in doing this he produced better and more durable results than if he had followed any other line of conduct. Up to this time Munich was a provincial residence town of only small importance, but he transformed it into the metropolis of German art and by doing so he made it an intellectual centre which even today holds Franconia to Bavaria, though the Franconians are of quite a different temperament. If Munich had remained as it had been earlier, what has happened in Saxony would have been repeated in Bavaria, with the diAerence that Leipzig and Bavarian Nurnberg would have become, not Bavarian but Franconian cities. It was not the cry of "Down with Prussia" that made Munich great. What made this a city of importance was the King who wished to present it to the German nation as an artistic jewel that would have to be seen and appreciated, and so it has turned out in fact. Therein lies a lesson for the future. The importance of the individual states in the future will no longer lie in their political or statal power. I look to them rather as important ethnical and cultural centres. But even in this respect time will do its levelling work. Modern travelling facilities shuffle people among one another in such a way that tribal boundaries will fade out and even the cultural picture will gradually become more of a uniform pattern.
The army must definitely be kept clear of the influence of the individual states. The coming National Socialist State must not fall back into the error of the past by imposing on the army a task which is not within its sphere and never should have been assigned to it. The German army does not exist for the purpose of being a school in which tribal particularisms are to be cultivated and preserved, but rather as a school for teaching all the Germans to understand and adapt their habits to one another. Whatever tends to have a separating influence in the life of the nation ought to be made a unifying influence in the army. The army must raise the German boy above the narrow horizon of his own little native province and set him within the broad picture of the nation. The youth must learn to know, not the confines of his own region but those of the fatherland, because it is the latter that he will have to defend one day. It is therefore absurd to have the German youth do his military training in his own native region. During that period he ought to learn to know Germany. This is all the more important today, since young Germans no longer travel on their own account as they once used to do and thus enlarge their horizon. In view of this, is it not absurd to leave the young Bavarian recruit at Munich, the recruit from Baden at Baden itself and the Wurttemberger at Stuttgart and so on? And would it not be more reasonable to show the Rhine and the North Sea to the Bavarian, the Alps to the native of Hamburg and the mountains of Central Germany to the boy from East Prussia? The character proper to each region ought to be maintained in the troops but not in the training garrisons. We may disapprove of every attempt at unification but not that of unifying the army. On the contrary, even though we should wish to welcome no other kind of unification, this must be greeted with joy. In view of the size of the present army of the Reich, it would be absurd to maintain the federal divisions among the troops. Moreover, in the unification of the German army which has actually been effected we see a fact which we must not renounce but restore in the future national army.
Finally a new and triumphant idea should burst every chain which tends to paralyse its efforts to push forward. National Socialism must claim the right to impose its principles on the whole German nation, without regard to what were hitherto the confines of federal states. And we must educate the German nation in our ideas and principles. As the Churches do not feel themselves bound or limited by political confines, so the National Socialist Idea cannot feel itself limited to the territories of the individual federal states that belong to our Fatherland.
The National Socialist doctrine is not handmaid to the political interests of the single federal states. One day it must become teacher to the whole German nation. It must determine the life of the whole people and shape that life anew. For this reason we must imperatively demand the right to overstep boundaries that have been traced by a political development which we repudiate.
The more completely our ideas triumph, the more liberty can we concede in particular affairs to our citizens at home.

----------

[Previous Chapter (Basic Ideas Regarding the Meaning and Organization of the SA)] [Home] [Next Chapter (Propaganda and Organization)]
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter XI Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter XI: Propaganda and Organization

The year 1921 was specially important for me from many points of view.
When I entered the German Labour Party I at once took charge of the propaganda, believing this branch to be far the most important for the time being. Just then it was not a matter of pressing necessity to cudgel one's brains over problems of organization. The first necessity was to spread our ideas among as many people as possible. Propaganda should go well ahead of organization and gather together the human material for the latter to work up. I have never been in favour of hasty and pedantic methods of organization, because in most cases the result is merely a piece of dead mechanism and only rarely a living organization. Organization is a thing that derives its existence from organic life, organic evolution. When the same set of ideas have found a lodgement in the minds of a certain number of people they tend of themselves to form a certain degree of order among those people and out of this inner formation something that is very valuable arises. Of course here, as everywhere else, one must take account of those human weaknesses which make men hesitate, especially at the beginning, to submit to the control of a superior mind. If an organization is imposed from above downwards in a mechanical fashion, there is always the danger that some individual may push himself forward who is not known for what he is and who, out of jealousy, will try to hinder abler persons from taking a leading place in the movement. The damage that results from that kind of thing may have fatal consequences, especially in a new movement.
For this reason it is advisable first to propagate and publicly expound the ideas on which the movement is founded. This work of propaganda should continue for a certain time and should be directed from one centre. When the ideas have gradually won over a number of people this human material should be carefully sifted for the purpose of selecting those who have ability in leadership and putting that ability to the test. It will often be found that apparently insignificant persons will nevertheless turn out to be born leaders.
Of course, it is quite a mistake to suppose that those who show a very intelligent grasp of the theory underlying a movement are for that reason qualified to fill responsible positions on the directorate. The contrary is very frequently the case.
Great masters of theory are only very rarely great organizers also. And this is because the greatness of the theorist and founder of a system consists in being able to discover and lay down those laws that are right in the abstract, whereas the organizer must first of all be a man of psychological insight. He must take men as they are, and for that reason he must know them, not having too high or too low an estimate of human nature. He must take account of their weaknesses, their baseness and all the other various characteristics, so as to form something out of them which will be a living organism, endowed with strong powers of resistance, fitted to be the carrier of an idea and strong enough to ensure the triumph of that idea.
But it is still more rare to find a great theorist who is at the same time a great leader. For the latter must be more of an agitator, a truth that will not be readily accepted by many of those who deal with problems only from the scientific standpoint. And yet what I say is only natural. For an agitator who shows himself capable of expounding ideas to the great masses must always be a psychologist, even though he may be only a demagogue. Therefore he will always be a much more capable leader than the contemplative theorist who meditates on his ideas, far from the human throng and the world. For to be a leader means to be able to move the masses. The gift of formulating ideas has nothing whatsoever to do with the capacity for leadership. It would be entirely futile to discuss the question as to which is the more important: the faculty of conceiving ideals and human aims or that of being able to have them put into practice. Here, as so often happens in life, the one would be entirely meaningless without the other. The noblest conceptions of the human understanding remain without purpose or value if the leader cannot move the masses towards them. And, conversely, what would it avail to have all the genius and elan of a leader if the intellectual theorist does not fix the aims for which mankind must struggle. But when the abilities of theorist and organizer and leader are united in the one person, then we have the rarest phenomenon on this earth. And it is that union which produces the great man.
As I have already said, during my first period in the Party I devoted myself to the work of propaganda. I had to succeed in gradually gathering together a small nucleus of men who would accept the new teaching and be inspired by it. And in this way we should provide the human material which subsequently would form the constituent elements of the organization. Thus the goal of the propagandist is nearly always fixed far beyond that of the organizer.
If a movement proposes to overthrow a certain order of things and construct a new one in its place, then the following principles must be clearly understood and must dominate in the ranks of its leadership: Every movement which has gained its human material must first divide this material into two groups: namely, followers and members.
It is the task of the propagandist to recruit the followers and it is the task of the organizer to select the members.
The follower of a movement is he who understands and accepts its aims; the member is he who fights for them.
The follower is one whom the propaganda has converted to the doctrine of the movement. The member is he who will be charged by the organization to collaborate in winning over new followers from which in turn new members can be formed.
To be a follower needs only the passive recognition of the idea. To be a member means to represent that idea and fight for it. From ten followers one can have scarcely more than two members. To be a follower simply implies that a man has accepted the teaching of the movement; whereas to be a member means that a man has the courage to participate actively in diffusing that teaching in which he has come to believe.
Because of its passive character, the simple effort of believing in a political doctrine is enough for the majority, for the majority of mankind is mentally lazy and timid. To be a member one must be intellectually active, and therefore this applies only to the minority.
Such being the case, the propagandist must seek untiringly to acquire new followers for the movement, whereas the organizer must diligently look out for the best elements among such followers, so that these elements may be transformed into members. The propagandist need not trouble too much about the personal worth of the individual proselytes he has won for the movement. He need not inquire into their abilities, their intelligence or character. From these proselytes, however, the organizer will have to select those individuals who are most capable of actively helping to bring the movement to victory.

The propagandist aims at inducing the whole people to accept his teaching. The organizer includes in his body of membership only those who, on psychological grounds, will not be an impediment to the further diffusion of the doctrines of the movement.

The propagandist inculcates his doctrine among the masses, with the idea of preparing them for the time when this doctrine will triumph, through the body of combatant members which he has formed from those followers who have given proof of the necessary ability and will-power to carry the struggle to victory.

The final triumph of a doctrine will be made all the more easy if the propagandist has effectively converted large bodies of men to the belief in that doctrine and if the organization that actively conducts the fight be exclusive, vigorous and solid.

When the propaganda work has converted a whole people to believe in a doctrine, the organization can turn the results of this into practical effect through the work of a mere handful of men. Propaganda and organization, therefore follower and member, then stand towards one another in a definite mutual relationship. The better the propaganda has worked, the smaller will the organization be. The greater the number of followers, so much the smaller can be the number of members. And conversely. If the propaganda be bad, the organization must be large. And if there be only a small number of followers, the membership must be all the larger V if the movement really counts on being successful.

The first duty of the propagandist is to win over people who can subsequently be taken into the organization. And the first duty of the organization is to select and train men who will be capable of carrying on the propaganda. The second duty of the organization is to disrupt the existing order of things and thus make room for the penetration of the new teaching which it represents, while the duty of the organizer must be to fight for the purpose of securing power, so that the doctrine may finally triumph.

A revolutionary conception of the world and human existence will always achieve decisive success when the new Weltanschhauung has been taught to a whole people, or subsequently forced upon them if necessary, and when, on the other hand, the central organization, the movement itself, is in the hands of only those few men who are absolutely indispensable to form the nerve-centres of the coming State.
Put in another way, this means that in every great revolutionary movement that is of world importance the idea of this movement must always be spread abroad through the operation of propaganda. The propagandist must never tire in his efforts to make the new ideas clearly understood, inculcating them among others, or at least he must place himself in the position of those others and endeavour to upset their confidence in the convictions they have hitherto held. In order that such propaganda should have backbone to it, it must be based on an organization. The organization chooses its members from among those followers whom the propaganda has won. That organization will become all the more vigorous if the work of propaganda be pushed forward intensively. And the propaganda will work all the better when the organization back of it is vigorous and strong in itself.
Hence the supreme task of the organizer is to see to it that any discord or differences which may arise among the members of the movement will not lead to a split and thereby cramp the work within the movement. Moreover, it is the duty of the organization to see that the fighting spirit of the movement does not flag or die out but that it is constantly reinvigorated and restrengthened. It is not necessary the number of members should increase indefinitely. Quite the contrary would be better. In view of the fact that only a fraction of humanity has energy and courage, a movement which increases its own organization indefinitely must of necessity one day become plethoric and inactive. Organizations, that is to say, groups of members, which increase their size beyond certain dimensions gradually lose their fighting force and are no longer in form to back up the propagation of a doctrine with aggressive elan and determination.
Now the greater and more revolutionary a doctrine is, so much the more active will be the spirit inspiring its body of members, because the subversive energy of such a doctrine will frighten way the chicken-hearted and small-minded bourgeoisie. In their hearts they may believe in the doctrine but they are afraid to acknowledge their belief openly. By reason of this very fact, however, an organization inspired by a veritable revolutionary idea will attract into the body of its membership only the most active of those believers who have been won for it by its propaganda. It is in this activity on the part of the membership body, guaranteed by the process of natural selection, that we are to seek the prerequisite conditions for the continuation of an active and spirited propaganda and also the victorious struggle for the success of the idea on which the movement is based.
The greatest danger that can threaten a movement is an abnormal increase in the number of its members, owing to its too rapid success. So long as a movement has to carry on a hard and bitter fight, people of weak and fundamentally egotistic temperament will steer very clear of it; but these will try to be accepted as members the moment the party achieves a manifest success in the course of its development.
It is on these grounds that we are to explain why so many movements which were at first successful slowed down before reaching the fulfilment of their purpose and, from an inner weakness which could not otherwise be explained, gave up the struggle and finally disappeared from the field. As a result of the early successes achieved, so many undesirable, unworthy and especially timid individuals became members of the movement that they finally secured the majority and stifled the fighting spirit of the others. These inferior elements then turned the movement to the service of their personal interests and, debasing it to the level of their own miserable heroism, no longer struggled for the triumph of the original idea. The fire of the first fervour died out, the fighting spirit flagged and, as the bourgeois world is accustomed to say very justly in such cases, the party mixed water with its wine.
For this reason it is necessary that a movement should, from the sheer instinct of self-preservation, close its lists to new membership the moment it becomes successful. And any further increase in its organization should be allowed to take place only with the most careful foresight and after a painstaking sifting of those who apply for membership. Only thus will it be possible to keep the kernel of the movement intact and fresh and sound. Care must be taken that the conduct of the movement is maintained exclusively in the hands of this original nucleus. This means that the nucleus must direct the propaganda which aims at securing general recognition for the movement. And the movement itself, when it has secured power in its hands, must carry out all those acts and measures which are necessary in order that its ideas should be finally established in practice.
With those elements that originally made the movement, the organization should occupy all the important positions that have been conquered and from those elements the whole directorate should be formed. This should continue until the maxims and doctrines of the party have become the foundation and policy of the new State. Only then will it be permissible gradually to give the reins into the hands of the Constitution of that State which the spirit of the movement has created. But this usually happens through a process of mutual rivalry, for here it is less a question of human intelligence than of the play and effect of the forces whose development may indeed be foreseen from the start but not perpetually controlled.
All great movements, whether of a political or religious nature, owe their imposing success to the recognition and adoption of those principles. And no durable success is conceivable if these laws are not observed.

As director of propaganda for the party, I took care not merely to prepare the ground for the greatness of the movement in its subsequent stages, but I also adopted the most radical measures against allowing into the organization any other than the best material. For the more radical and exciting my propaganda was, the more did it frighten weak and wavering characters away, thus preventing them from entering the first nucleus of our organization. Perhaps they remained followers, but they did not raise their voices. On the contrary, they maintained a discreet silence on the fact. Many thousands of persons then assured me that they were in full agreement with us but they could not on any account become members of our party. They said that the movement was so radical that to take part in it as members would expose them to grave censures and grave dangers, so that they would rather continue to be looked upon as honest and peaceful citizens and remain aside, for the time being at least, though devoted to our cause with all their hearts.
And that was all to the good. If all these men who in their hearts did not approve of revolutionary ideas came into our movement as members at that time, we should be looked upon as a pious confraternity today and not as a young movement inspired with the spirit of combat.
The lively and combative form which I gave to all our propaganda fortified and guaranteed the radical tendency of our movement, and the result was that, with a few exceptions, only men of radical views were disposed to become members.
It was due to the effect of our propaganda that within a short period of time hundreds of thousands of citizens became convinced in their hearts that we were right and wished us victory, although personally they were too timid to make sacrifices for our cause or even participate in it.
Up to the middle of 1921 this simple activity of gathering in followers was sufficient and was of value to the movement. But in the summer of that year certain events happened which made it seem opportune for us to bring our organization into line with the manifest successes which the propaganda had achieved.
An attempt made by a group of patriotic visionaries, supported by the chairman of the party at that time, to take over the direction of the party led to the break up of this little intrigue and, by a unanimous vote at a general meeting, entrusted the entire direction of the party to my own hands. At the same time a new statute was passed which invested sole responsibility in the chairman of the movement, abolished the system of resolutions in committee and in its stead introduced the principle of division of labour which since that time has worked excellently.
From August 1st, 1921, onwards I undertook this internal reorganization of the party and was supported by a number of excellent men. I shall mention them and their work individually later on.
In my endeavour to turn the results gained by the propaganda to the advantage of the organization and thus stabilize them, I had to abolish completely a number of old customs and introduce regulations which none of the other parties possessed or had adopted.
In the years 1920-21 the movement was controlled by a committee elected by the members at a general meeting. The committee was composed of a first and second treasurer, a first and second secretary, and a first and second chairman at the head of it. In addition to these there was a representative of the members, the director of propaganda, and various assessors.
Comically enough, the committee embodied the very principle against which the movement itself wanted to fight with all its energy, namely, the principle of parliamentarianism. Here was a principle which personified everything that was being opposed by the movement, from the smallest local groups to the district and regional groups, the state groups and finally the national directorate itself. It was a system under which we all suffered and are still suffering.
It was imperative to change this state of affairs forthwith, if this bad foundation in the internal organization was not to keep the movement insecure and render the fulfilment of its high mission impossible.
The sessions of the committee, which were ruled by a protocol, and in which decisions were made according to the vote of the majority, presented the picture of a miniature parliament. Here also there was no such thing as personal responsibility. And here reigned the same absurdities and illogical state of affairs as flourish in our great representative bodies of the State. Names were presented to this committee for election as secretaries, treasurers, representatives of the members of the organization, propaganda agents and God knows what else. And then they all acted in common on every particular question and decided it by vote. Accordingly, the director of propaganda voted on a question that concerned the man who had to do with the finances and the latter in his turn voted on a question that concerned only the organization as such, the organizer voting on a subject that had to do with the secretarial department, and so on.
Why select a special man for propaganda if treasurers and scribes and commissaries, etc., had to deliver judgment on questions concerning it? To a person of commonsense that sort of thing seemed as incomprehensible as it would be if in a great manufacturing concern the board of directors were to decide on technical questions of production or if, inversely, the engineers were to decide on questions of administration.
I refused to countenance that kind of folly and after a short time I ceased to appear at the meetings of the committee. I did nothing else except attend to my own department of propaganda and I did not permit any of the others to poke their heads into my activities. Conversely, I did not interfere in the affairs of others.
When the new statute was approved and I was appointed as president, I had the necessary authority in my hands and also the corresponding right to make short shrift of all that nonsense. In the place of decisions by the majority vote of the committee, the principle of absolute responsibility was introduced.
The chairman is responsible for the whole control of the movement. He apportions the work among the members of the committee subordinate to him and for special work he selects other individuals. Each of these gentlemen must bear sole responsibility for the task assigned to him. He is subordinate only to the chairman, whose duty is to supervise the general collaboration, selecting the personnel and giving general directions for the co-ordination of the common work.
This principle of absolute responsibility is being adopted little by little throughout the movement. In the small local groups and perhaps also in the regional and district groups it will take yet a long time before the principle can be thoroughly imposed, because timid and hesitant characters are naturally opposed to it. For them the idea of bearing absolute responsibility for an act opens up an unpleasant prospect. They would like to hide behind the shoulders of the majority in the so-called committee, having their acts covered by decisions passed in that way. But it seems to me a matter of absolute necessity to take a decisive stand against that view, to make no concessions whatsoever to this fear of responsibility, even though it takes some time before we can put fully into effect this concept of duty and ability in leadership, which will finally bring forward leaders who have the requisite abilities to occupy the chief posts.
In any case, a movement which must fight against the absurdity of parliamentary institutions must be immune from this sort of thing. Only thus will it have the requisite strength to carry on the struggle.
At a time when the majority dominates everywhere else a movement which is based on the principle of one leader who has to bear personal responsibility for the direction of the official acts of the movement itself will one day overthrow the present situation and triumph over the existing regime. That is a mathematical certainty.
This idea made it necessary to reorganize our movement internally. The logical development of this reorganization brought about a clear-cut distinction between the economic section of the movement and the general political direction. The principle of personal responsibility was extended to all the administrative branches of the party and it brought about a healthy renovation, by liberating them from political influences and allowing them to operate solely on economic principles.
In the autumn of 1921, when the party was founded, there were only six members. The party did not have any headquarters, nor officials, nor formularies, nor a stamp, nor printed material of any sort. The committee first held its sittings in a restaurant on the Herrengasse and then in a cafe at Gasteig. This state of affairs could not last. So I at once took action in the matter. I went around to several restaurants and hotels in Munich, with the idea of renting a room in one of them for the use of the Party. In the old Sterneckerbrau im Tal, there was a small room with arched roof, which in earlier times was used as a sort of festive tavern where the Bavarian Counsellors of the Holy Roman Empire foregathered. It was dark and dismal and accordingly well suited to its ancient uses, though less suited to the new purpose it was now destined to serve. The little street on which its one window looked out was so narrow that even on the brightest summer day the room remained dim and sombre. Here we took up our first fixed abode. The rent came to fifty marks per month, which was then an enormous sum for us. But our exigencies had to be very modest. We dared not complain even when they removed the wooden wainscoting a few days after we had taken possession. This panelling had been specially put up for the Imperial Counsellors. The place began to look more like a grotto than an office.
Still it marked an important step forward. Slowly we had electric light installed and later on a telephone. A table and some borrowed chairs were brought, an open paper-stand and later on a cupboard. Two sideboards, which belonged to the landlord, served to store our leaflets, placards, etc.
As time went on it turned out impossible to direct the course of the movement merely by holding a committee meeting once a week. The current business administration of the movement could not be regularly attended to except we had a salaried official.
But that was then very difficult for us. The movement had still so few members that it was hard to find among them a suitable person for the job who would be content with very little for himself and at the same time would be ready to meet the manifold demands which the movement would make on his time and energy.
After long searching we discovered a soldier who consented to become our first administrator. His name was Schussler, an old war comrade of mine. At first he came to our new office every day between six and eight o'clock in the evening. Later on he came from five to eight and subsequently for the whole afternoon. Finally it became a full-time job and he worked in the office from morning until late at night. He was an industrious, upright and thoroughly honest man, faithful and devoted to the movement. He brought with him a small Adler typewriter of his own. It was the first machine to be used in the service of the party. Subsequently the party bought it by paying for it in installments. We needed a small safe in order to keep our papers and register of membership from danger of being stolen V not to guard our funds, which did not then exist. On the contrary, our financial position was so miserable that I often had to dip my hand into my own personal savings.
After eighteen months our business quarters had become too small, so we moved to a new place in the Cornelius Strasse. Again our office was in a restaurant, but instead of one room we now had three smaller rooms and one large room with great windows. At that time this appeared a wonderful thing to us. We remained there until the end of November 1923.
In December 1920, we acquired the Volkischer Beobachter. This newspaper which, as its name implies, championed the claims of the people, was now to become the organ of the German National Socialist Labour Party. At first it appeared twice weekly; but at the beginning of 1928 it became a daily paper, and at the end of August in the same year it began to appear in the large format which is now well known.
As a complete novice in journalism I then learned many a lesson for which I had to pay dearly.
In contradistinction to the enormous number of papers in Jewish hands, there was at that time only one important newspaper that defended the cause of the people. This was a matter for grave consideration. As I have often learned by experience, the reason for that state of things must be attributed to the incompetent way in which the business side of the so-called popular newspapers was managed. These were conducted too much according to the rule that opinion should prevail over action that produces results. Quite a wrong standpoint, for opinion is of itself something internal and finds its best expression in productive activity. The man who does valuable work for his people expresses thereby his excellent sentiments, whereas another who merely talks about his opinions and does nothing that is of real value or use to the people is a person who perverts all right thinking. And that attitude of his is also pernicious for the community.
The Volkische Beobachter was a so-called 'popular' organ, as its name indicated. It had all the good qualities, but still more the errors and weaknesses, inherent in all popular institutions. Though its contents were excellent, its management as a business concern was simply impossible. Here also the underlying idea was that popular newspapers ought to be subsidized by popular contributions, without recognizing that it had to make its way in competition with the others and that it was dishonest to expect the subscriptions of good patriots to make up for the mistaken management of the undertaking.
I took care to alter those conditions promptly, for I recognized the danger lurking in them. Luck was on my side here, inasmuch as it brought me the man who since that time has rendered innumerable services to the movement, not only as business manager of the newspaper but also as business manager of the party. In 1914, in the War, I made the acquaintance of Max Amann, who was then my superior and is today general business Director of the Party. During four years in the War I had occasion to observe almost continually the unusual ability, the diligence and the rigorous conscientiousness of my future collaborator.
In the summer of 1921 I applied to my old regimental comrade, whom I met one day by chance, and asked him to become business manager of the movement. At that time the movement was passing through a grave crisis and I had reason to be dissatisfied with several of our officials, with one of whom I had had a very bitter experience. Amann then held a good situation in which there were also good prospects for him.
After long hesitation he agreed to my request, but only on condition that he must not be at the mercy of incompetent committees. He must be responsible to one master, and only one.
It is to the inestimable credit of this first business manager of the party, whose commercial knowledge is extensive and profound, that he brought order and probity into the various offices of the party. Since that time these have remained exemplary and cannot be equalled or excelled in this by any other branches of the movement. But, as often happens in life, great ability provokes envy and disfavour. That had also to be expected in this case and borne patiently.
Since 1922 rigorous regulations have been in force, not only for the commercial construction of the movement but also in the organization of it as such. There exists now a central filing system, where the names and particulars of all the members are enrolled. The financing of the party has been placed on sound lines. The current expenditure must be covered by the current receipts and special receipts can be used only for special expenditures. Thus, notwithstanding the difficulties of the time the movement remained practically without any debts, except for a few small current accounts. Indeed, there was a permanent increase in the funds. Things are managed as in a private business. The employed personnel hold their jobs in virtue of their practical efficiency and could not in any manner take cover behind their professed loyalty to the party. A good National Socialist proves his soundness by the readiness, diligence and capability with which he discharges whatever duties are assigned to him in whatever situation he holds within the national community. The man who does not fulfil his duty in the job he holds cannot boast of a loyalty against which he himself really sins.
Adamant against all kinds of outer influence, the new business director of the party firmly maintained the standpoint that there were no sinecure posts in the party administration for followers and members of the movement whose pleasure is not work. A movement which fights so energetically against the corruption introduced into our civil service by the various political parties must be immune from that vice in its own administrative department. It happened that some men were taken on the staff of the paper who had formerly been adherents of the Bavarian People's Party, but their work showed that they were excellently qualified for the job. The result of this experiment was generally excellent. It was owing to this honest and frank recognition of individual efficiency that the movement won the hearts of its employees more swiftly and more profoundly than had ever been the case before. Subsequently they became good National Socialists and remained so. Not in word only, but they proved it by the steady and honest and conscientious work which they performed in the service of the new movement. Naturally a well qualified party member was preferred to another who had equal qualifications but did not belong to the party. The rigid determination with which our new business chief applied these principles and gradually put them into force, despite all misunderstandings, turned out to be of great advantage to the movement. To this we owe the fact that it was possible for us V during the difficult period of the inflation, when thousands of businesses failed and thousands of newspapers had to cease publication V not only to keep the commercial department of the movement going and meet all its obligations but also to make steady progress with the Volkische Beobachter. At that time it came to be ranked among the great newspapers.
The year 1921 was of further importance for me by reason of the fact that in my position as chairman of the party I slowly but steadily succeeded in putting a stop to the criticisms and the intrusions of some members of the committee in regard to the detailed activities of the party administration. This was important, because we could not get a capable man to take on a job if nincompoops were constantly allowed to butt in, pretending that they knew everything much better; whereas in reality they had left only general chaos behind them. Then these wise-acres retired, for the most part quite modestly, to seek another field for their activities where they could supervise and tell how things ought to be done. Some men seemed to have a mania for sniffing behind everything and were, so to say, always in a permanent state of pregnancy with magnificent plans and ideas and projects and methods. Naturally their noble aim and ideal were always the formation of a committee which could pretend to be an organ of control in order to be able to sniff as experts into the regular work done by others. But it is offensive and contrary to the spirit of National Socialism when incompetent people constantly interfere in the work of capable persons. But these makers of committees do not take that very much into account. In those years I felt it my duty to safeguard against such annoyance all those who were entrusted with regular and responsible work, so that there should be no spying over the shoulder and they would be guaranteed a free hand in their day's work.
The best means of making committees innocuous, which either did nothing or cooked up impracticable decisions, was to give them some real work to do. It was then amusing to see how the members would silently fade away and were soon nowhere to be found. It made me think of that great institution of the same kind, the Reichstag. How quickly they would evanesce if they were put to some real work instead of talking, especially if each member were made personally responsible for the work assigned to him.
I always demanded that, just as in private life so also in the movement, one should not tire of seeking until the best and honestest and manifestly the most competent person could be found for the position of leader or administrator in each section of the movement. Once installed in his position he was given absolute authority and full freedom of action towards his subordinates and full responsibility towards his superiors. Nobody was placed in a position of authority towards his subordinates unless he himself was competent in the work entrusted to them. In the course of two years I brought my views more and more into practice; so that today, at least as far as the higher direction of the movement is concerned, they are accepted as a matter of course.
The manifest success of this attitude was shown on November 9th, 1923. Four years previously, when I entered the movement, it did not have even a rubber stamp. On November 9th, 1923, the party was dissolved and its property confiscated. The total sum realized by all the objects of value and the paper amounted to more than 170,000 gold marks.

----------

[Previous Chapter (Federalism as a Mask)] [Home] [Next Chapter (The Trade-Union Question)]
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter XII Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter XII: The Trade-Union Question

Owing to the rapid growth of the movement, in 1922 we felt compelled to take a definite stand on a question which has not been fully solved even yet.
In our efforts to discover the quickest and easiest way for the movement to reach the heart of the broad masses we were always confronted with the objection that the worker could never completely belong to us while his interests in the purely vocational and economic sphere were cared for by a political organization conducted by men whose principles were quite different from ours.
That was quite a serious objection. The general belief was that a workman engaged in some trade or other could not exist if he did not belong to a trade union. Not only were his professional interests thus protected but a guarantee of permanent employment was simply inconceivable without membership in a trade union. The majority of the workers were in the trades unions. Generally speaking, the unions had successfully conducted the battle for the establishment of a definite scale of wages and had concluded agreements which guaranteed the worker a steady income. Undoubtedly the workers in the various trades benefited by the results of that campaign and, for honest men especially, conflicts of conscience must have arisen if they took the wages which had been assured through the struggle fought by the trades unions and if at the same time the men themselves withdrew from the fight.
It was difficult to discuss this problem with the average bourgeois employer. He had no understanding (or did not wish to have any) for either the material or moral side of the question. Finally he declared that his own economic interests were in principle opposed to every kind of organization which joined together the workmen that were dependent on him. Hence it was for the most part impossible to bring these bourgeois employers to take an impartial view of the situation. Here, therefore, as in so many other cases, it was necessary to appeal to disinterested outsiders who would not be subject to the temptation of fixing their attention on the trees and failing to see the forest. With a little good will on their part, they could much more easily understand a state of affairs which is of the highest importance for our present and future existence.
In the first volume of this book I have already expressed my views on the nature and purpose and necessity of trade unions. There I took up the standpoint that unless measures are undertaken by the State (usually futile in such cases) or a new ideal is introduced in our education, which would change the attitude of the employer towards the worker, no other course would be open to the latter except to defend his own interests himself by appealing to his equal rights as a contracting party within the economic sphere of the nation's existence. I stated further that this would conform to the interests of the national community if thereby social injustices could be redressed which otherwise would cause serious damage to the whole social structure. I stated, moreover, that the worker would always find it necessary to undertake this protective action as long as there were men among the employers who had no sense of their social obligations nor even of the most elementary human rights. And I concluded by saying that if such self-defence be considered necessary its form ought to be that of an association made up of the workers themselves on the basis of trades unions.
This was my general idea and it remained the same in 1922. But a clear and precise formula was still to be discovered. We could not be satisfied with merely understanding the problem. It was necessary to come to some conclusions that could be put into practice. The following questions had to be answered:
(1) Are trade unions necessary?
(2) Should the German National Socialist Labour Party itself operate on a trade unionist basis or have its members take part in trade unionist activities in some form or other?
(3) What form should a National Socialist Trades Union take? What are the tasks confronting us and the ends we must try to attain?
(4) How can we establish trade unions for such tasks and aims?
I think that I have already answered the first question adequately. In the present state of affairs I am convinced that we cannot possibly dispense with the trades unions. On the contrary, they are among the most important institutions in the economic life of the nation. Not only are they important in the sphere of social policy but also, and even more so, in the national political sphere. For when the great masses of a nation see their vital needs satisfied through a just trade unionist movement the stamina of the whole nation in its struggle for existence will be enormously reinforced thereby.
Before everything else, the trades unions are necessary as building stones for the future economic parliament, which will be made up of chambers representing the various professions and occupations.
The second question is also easy to answer. If the trade unionist movement is important, then it is clear that National Socialism ought to take a definite stand on that question, not only theoretically but also in practice. But how? That is more difficult to see clearly.
The National Socialist Movement, which aims at establishing the National Socialist People's State, must always bear steadfastly in mind the principle that every future institution under that State must be rooted in the movement itself. It is a great mistake to believe that by acquiring possession of supreme political power we can bring about a definite reorganization, suddenly starting from nothing, without the help of a certain reserve stock of men who have been trained beforehand, especially in the spirit of the movement. Here also the principle holds good that the spirit is always more important than the external form which it animates; since this form can be created mechanically and quickly. For instance, the leadership principle may be imposed on an organized political community in a dictatorial way. But this principle can become a living reality only by passing through the stages that are necessary for its own evolution. These stages lead from the smallest cell of the State organism upwards. As its bearers and representatives, the leadership principle must have a body of men who have passed through a process of selection lasting over several years, who have been tempered by the hard realities of life and thus rendered capable of carrying the principle into practical effect.
It is out of the question to think that a scheme for the Constitution of a State can be pulled out of a portfolio at a moment's notice and 'introduced' by imperative orders from above. One may try that kind of thing but the result will always be something that has not sufficient vitality to endure. It will be like a stillborn infant. The idea of it calls to mind the origin of the Weimar Constitution and the attempt to impose on the German people a new Constitution and a new flag, neither of which had any inner relation to the vicissitudes of our people's history during the last half century.
The National Socialist State must guard against all such experiments. It must grow out of an organization which has already existed for a long time. This organization must possess National Socialist life in itself, so that finally it may be able to establish a National Socialist State that will be a living reality.
As I have already said, the germ cells of this State must lie in the administrative chambers which will represent the various occupations and professions, therefore first of all in the trades unions. If this subsequent vocational representation and the Central Economic Parliament are to be National Socialist institutions, these important germ cells must be vehicles of the National Socialist concept of life. The institutions of the movement are to be brought over into the State; for the State cannot call into existence all of a sudden and as if by magic those institutions which are necessary to its existence, unless it wishes to have institutions that are bound to remain completely lifeless.
Looking at the matter from the highest standpoint, the National Socialist Movement will have to recognize the necessity of adopting its own trade-unionist policy.
It must do this for a further reason, namely because a real National Socialist education for the employer as well as for the employee, in the spirit of a mutual co-operation within the common framework of the national community, cannot be secured by theoretical instruction, appeals and exhortations, but through the struggles of daily life. In this spirit and through this spirit the movement must educate the several large economic groups and bring them closer to one another under a wider outlook. Without this preparatory work it would be sheer illusion to hope that a real national community can be brought into existence. The great ideal represented by its philosophy of life and for which the movement fights can alone form a general style of thought steadily and slowly. And this style will show that the new state of things rests on foundations that are internally sound and not merely an external facade.
Hence the movement must adopt a positive attitude towards the trade-unionist idea. But it must go further than this. For the enormous number of members and followers of the trade-unionist movement it must provide a practical education which will meet the exigencies of the coming National Socialist State.
The answer to the third question follows from what has been already said.
The National Socialist Trades Union is not an instrument for class warfare, but a representative organ of the various occupations and callings. The National Socialist State recognizes no 'classes'. But, under the political aspect, it recognizes only citizens with absolutely equal rights and equal obligations corresponding thereto. And, side by side with these, it recognizes subjects of the State who have no political rights whatsoever.
According to the National Socialist concept, it is not the task of the trades union to band together certain men within the national community and thus gradually transform these men into a class, so as to use them in a conflict against other groups similarly organized within the national community. We certainly cannot assign this task to the trades union as such. This was the task assigned to it the moment it became a fighting weapon in the hands of the Marxists. The trades union is not naturally an instrument of class warfare; but the Marxists transformed it into an instrument for use in their own class struggle. They created the economic weapon which the international Jew uses for the purpose of destroying the economic foundations of free and independent national States, for ruining their national industry and trade and thereby enslaving free nations to serve Jewish world-finance, which transcends all State boundaries.
In contradistinction to this, the National Socialist Trades Union must organize definite groups and those who participate in the economic life of the nation and thus enhance the security of the national economic system itself, reinforcing it by the elimination of all those anomalies which ultimately exercise a destructive influence on the social body of the nation, damaging the vital forces of the national community, prejudicing the welfare of the State and, by no means as a last consequence, bringing evil and destruction on economic life itself.
Therefore in the hands of the National Socialist Trades Union the strike is not an instrument for disturbing and dislocating the national production, but for increasing it and making it run smoothly, by fighting against all those annoyances which by reason of their unsocial character hinder efficiency in business and thereby hamper the existence of the whole nation. For individual efficiency stands always in casual relation to the general social and juridical position of the individual in the economic process. Individual efficiency is also the sole root of the conviction that the economic prosperity of the nation must necessarily redound to the benefit of the individual citizen.
The National Socialist employee will have to recognize the fact that the economic prosperity of the nation brings with it his own material happiness.
The National Socialist employer must recognize that the happiness and contentment of his employees are necessary pre-requisites for the existence and development of his own economic prosperity.
National Socialist workers and employers are both together the delegates and mandatories of the whole national community. The large measure of personal freedom which is accorded to them for their activities must be explained by the fact that experience has shown that the productive powers of the individual are more enhanced by being accorded a generous measure of freedom than by coercion from above. Moreover, by according this freedom we give free play to the natural process of selection which brings forward the ablest and most capable and most industrious. For the National Socialist Trades Union, therefore, the strike is a means that may, and indeed must, be resorted to as long as there is not a National Socialist State yet. But when that State is established it will, as a matter of course, abolish the mass struggle between the two great groups made up of employers and employees respectively, a struggle which has always resulted in lessening the national production and injuring the national community. In place of this struggle, the National Socialist State will take over the task of caring for and defending the rights of all parties concerned. It will be the duty of the Economic Chamber itself to keep the national economic system in smooth working order and to remove whatever defects or errors it may suffer from. Questions that are now fought over through a quarrel that involves millions of people will then be settled in the Representative Chambers of Trades and Professions and in the Central Economic Parliament. Thus employers and employees will no longer find themselves drawn into a mutual conflict over wages and hours of work, always to the detriment of their mutual interests. But they will solve these problems together on a higher plane, where the welfare of the national community and of the State will be as a shining ideal to throw light on all their negotiations.
Here again, as everywhere else, the inflexible principle must be observed, that the interests of the country must come before party interests.
The task of the National Socialist Trades Union will be to educate and prepare its members to conform to these ideals. That task may be stated as follows: All must work together for the maintenance and security of our people and the People's State, each one according to the abilities and powers with which Nature has endowed him and which have been developed and trained by the national community.
Our fourth question was: How shall we establish trades unions for such tasks and aims? That is far more difficult to answer.
Generally speaking, it is easier to establish something in new territory than in old territory which already has its established institutions. In a district where there is no existing business of a special character one can easily establish a new business of this character. But it is more difficult if the same kind of enterprise already exists and it is most difficult of all when the conditions are such that only one enterprise of this kind can prosper. For here the promoters of the new enterprise find themselves confronted not only with the problem of introducing their own business but also that of how to bring about the destruction of the other business already existing in the district, so that the new enterprise may be able to exist.
It would be senseless to have a National Socialist Trades Union side by side with other trades unions. For this Trades Union must be thoroughly imbued with a feeling for the ideological nature of its task and of the resulting obligation not to tolerate other similar or hostile institutions. It must also insist that itself alone is necessary, to the exclusion of all the rest. It can come to no arrangement and no compromise with kindred tendencies but must assert its own absolute and exclusive right.
There were two ways which might lead to such a development:
(1) We could establish our Trades Union and then gradually take up the fight against the Marxist International Trades Union.
(2) Or we could enter the Marxist Trades Union and inculcate a new spirit in it, with the idea of transforming it into an instrument in the service of the new ideal.
The first way was not advisable, by reason of the fact that our financial situation was still the cause of much worry to us at that time and our resources were quite slender. The effects of the inflation were steadily spreading and made the particular situation still more difficult for us, because in those years one could scarcely speak of any material help which the trades unions could extend to their members. From this point of view, there was no reason why the individual worker should pay his dues to the union. Even the Marxist unions then existing were already on the point of collapse until, as the result of Herr Cuno's enlightened Ruhr policy, millions were suddenly poured into their coffers. This so-called 'national' Chancellor of the Reich should go down in history as the Redeemer of the Marxist trades unions.
We could not count on similar financial facilities. And nobody could be induced to enter a new Trades Union which, on account of its financial weakness, could not offer him the slightest material benefit. On the other hand, I felt bound absolutely to guard against the creation of such an organization which would only be a shelter for shirkers of the more or less intellectual type.
At that time the question of personnel played the most important role. I did not have a single man whom I might call upon to carry out this important task. Whoever could have succeeded at that time in overthrowing the Marxist unions to make way for the triumph of the National Socialist corporative idea, which would then take the place of the ruinous class warfare V such a person would be fit to rank with the very greatest men our nation has produced and his bust should be installed in the Valhalla at Regensburg for the admiration of posterity.
But I knew of no person who could qualify for such a pedestal.
In this connection we must not be led astray by the fact that the international trades unions are conducted by men of only mediocre significance, for when those unions were founded there was nothing else of a similar kind already in existence. To-day the National Socialist Movement must fight against a monster organization which has existed for a long time, rests on gigantic foundations and is carefully constructed even in the smallest details. An assailant must always exercise more intelligence than the defender, if he is to overthrow the latter. The Marxist trade-unionist citadel may be governed today by mediocre leaders, but it cannot be taken by assault except through the dauntless energy and genius of a superior leader on the other side. If such a leader cannot be found it is futile to struggle with Fate and even more foolish to try to overthrow the existing state of things without being able to construct a better in its place.
Here one must apply the maxim that in life it is often better to allow something to go by the board rather than try to half do it or do it badly, owing to a lack of suitable means.
To this we must add another consideration, which is not at all of a demagogic character. At that time I had, and I still have today, a firmly rooted conviction that when one is engaged in a great ideological struggle in the political field it would be a grave mistake to mix up economic questions with this struggle in its earlier stages. This applies particularly to our German people. For if such were to happen in their case the economic struggle would immediately distract the energy necessary for the political fight. Once the people are brought to believe that they can buy a little house with their savings they will devote themselves to the task of increasing their savings and no spare time will be left to them for the political struggle against those who, in one way or another, will one day secure possession of the pennies that have been saved. Instead of participating in the political conflict on behalf of the opinions and convictions which they have been brought to accept they will now go further with their 'settlement' idea and in the end they will find themselves for the most part sitting on the ground amidst all the stools.
To-day the National Socialist Movement is at the beginning of its struggle. In great part it must first of all shape and develop its ideals. It must employ every ounce of its energy in the struggle to have its great ideal accepted, and the success of this effort is not conceivable unless the combined energies of the movement be entirely at the service of this struggle.
To-day we have a classical example of how the active strength of a people becomes paralysed when that people is too much taken up with purely economic problems.
The Revolution which took place in November 1918 was not made by the trades unions, but it was carried out in spite of them. And the people of Germany did not wage any political fight for the future of their country because they thought that the future could be sufficiently secured by constructive work in the economic field.
We must learn a lesson from this experience, because in our case the same thing must happen under the same circumstances. The more the combined strength of our movement is concentrated in the political struggle, the more confidently may we count on being successful along our whole front. But if we busy ourselves prematurely with trade unionist problems, settlement problems, etc., it will be to the disadvantage of our own cause, taken as a whole. For, though these problems may be important, they cannot be solved in an adequate manner until we have political power in our hand and are able to use it in the service of this idea. Until that day comes these problems can have only a paralysing effect on the movement. And if it takes them up too soon they will only be a hindrance in the effort to attain its own ideological aims. It may then easily happen that trade unionist considerations will control the political direction of the movement, instead of the ideological aims of the movement directing the way that the trades unions are to take.
The movement and the nation can derive advantage from a National Socialist trade unionist organization only if the latter be so thoroughly inspired by National Socialist ideas that it runs no danger of falling into step behind the Marxist movement. For a National Socialist Trades Union which would consider itself only as a competitor against the Marxist unions would be worse than none. It must declare war against the Marxist Trades Union, not only as an organization but, above all, as an idea. It must declare itself hostile to the idea of class and class warfare and, in place of this, it must declare itself as the defender of the various occupational and professional interests of the German people.
Considered from all these points of view it was not then advisable, nor is it yet advisable, to think of founding our own Trades Union. That seemed clear to me, at least until somebody appeared who was obviously called by fate to solve this particular problem.
Therefore there remained only two possible ways. Either to recommend our own party members to leave the trades unions in which they were enrolled or to remain in them for the moment, with the idea of causing as much destruction in them as possible.
In general, I recommended the latter alternative.
Especially in the year 1922-23 we could easily do that. For, during the period of inflation, the financial advantages which might be reaped from a trades union organization would be negligible, because we could expect to enroll only a few members owing to the undeveloped condition of our movement. The damage which might result from such a policy was all the greater because its bitterest critics and opponents were to be found among the followers of the National Socialist Party.
I had already entirely discountenanced all experiments which were destined from the very beginning to be unsuccessful. I would have considered it criminal to run the risk of depriving a worker of his scant earnings in order to help an organization which, according to my inner conviction, could not promise real advantages to its members.
Should a new political party fade out of existence one day nobody would be injured thereby and some would have profited, but none would have a right to complain. For what each individual contributes to a political movement is given with the idea that it may ultimately come to nothing. But the man who pays his dues to a trade union has the right to expect some guarantee in return. If this is not done, then the directors of such a trade union are swindlers or at least careless people who ought to be brought to a sense of their responsibilities.
We took all these viewpoints into consideration before making our decision in 1922. Others thought otherwise and founded trades unions. They upbraided us for being short-sighted and failing to see into the future. But it did not take long for these organizations to disappear and the result was what would have happened in our own case. But the difference was that we should have deceived neither ourselves nor those who believed in us.

----------

[Previous Chapter (Propaganda and Organization)] [Home] [Next Chapter (German Alliance Policy after the War)]
Mein Kampf - Volume II, Chapter XIII Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler

Volume Two - The National Socialist Movement
Chapter XIII: German Alliance Policy after the War

The erratic manner in which the foreign affairs of the Reich were conducted was due to a lack of sound guiding principles for the formation of practical and useful alliances. Not only was this state of affairs continued after the Revolution, but it became even worse.
For the confused state of our political ideas in general before the War may be looked upon as the chief cause of our defective statesmanship; but in the post-War period this cause must be attributed to a lack of honest intentions. It was natural that those parties who had fully achieved their destructive purpose by means of the Revolution should feel that it would not serve their interests if a policy of alliances were adopted which must ultimately result in the restoration of a free German State. A development in this direction would not be in conformity with the purposes of the November crime. It would have interrupted and indeed put an end to the internationalization of German national economy and German Labour. But what was feared most of all was that a successful effort to make the Reich independent of foreign countries might have an influence in domestic politics which one day would turn out disastrous for those who now hold supreme power in the government of the Reich. One cannot imagine the revival of a nation unless that revival be preceded by a process of nationalization. Conversely, every important success in the field of foreign politics must call forth a favourable reaction at home. Experience proves that every struggle for liberty increases the national sentiment and national self-consciousness and therewith gives rise to a keener sensibility towards anti-national elements and tendencies. A state of things, and persons also, that may be tolerated and even pass unnoticed in times of peace will not only become the object of aversion when national enthusiasm is aroused but will even provoke positive opposition, which frequently turns out disastrous for them. In this connection we may recall the spy-scare that became prevalent when the war broke out, when human passion suddenly manifested itself to such a heightened degree as to lead to the most brutal persecutions, often without any justifiable grounds, although everybody knew that the danger resulting from spies is greater during the long periods of peace; but, for obvious reasons, they do not then attract a similar amount of public attention. For this reason the subtle instinct of the State parasites who came to the surface of the national body through the November happenings makes them feel at once that a policy of alliances which would restore the freedom of our people and awaken national sentiment might possibly ruin their own criminal existence.
Thus we may explain the fact that since 1918 the men who have held the reins of government adopted an entirely negative attitude towards foreign affairs and that the business of the State has been almost constantly conducted in a systematic way against the interests of the German nation. For that which at first sight seemed a matter of chance proved, on closer examination, to be a logical advance along the road which was first publicly entered upon by the November Revolution of 1918.
Undoubtedly a distinction ought to be made between (1) the responsible administrators of our affairs of State, or rather those who ought to be responsible; (2) the average run of our parliamentary politicasters, and (3) the masses of our people, whose sheepish docility corresponds to their want of intelligence.
The first know what they want. The second fall into line with them, either because they have been already schooled in what is afoot or because they have not the courage to take an uncompromising stand against a course which they know and feel to be detrimental. The third just submit to it because they are too stupid to understand.
While the German National Socialist Labour Party was only a small and practically unknown society, problems of foreign policy could have only a secondary importance in the eyes of many of its members. This was the case especially because our movement has always proclaimed the principle, and must proclaim it, that the freedom of the country in its foreign relations is not a gift that will be bestowed upon us by Heaven or by any earthly Powers, but can only be the fruit of a development of our inner forces. We must first root out the causes which led to our collapse and we must eliminate all those who are profiting by that collapse. Then we shall be in a position to take up the fight for the restoration of our freedom in the management of our foreign relations.
It will be easily understood therefore why we did not attach so much importance to foreign affairs during the early stages of our young movement, but preferred to concentrate on the problem of internal reform.
But when the small and insignificant society expanded and finally grew too large for its first framework, the young organization assumed the importance of a great association and we then felt it incumbent on us to take a definite stand on problems regarding the development of a foreign policy. It was necessary to lay down the main lines of action which would not only be in accord with the fundamental ideas of our Weltanschhauung but would actually be an expansion of it in the practical world of foreign affairs.
Just because our people have had no political education in matters concerning our relations abroad, it was necessary to teach the leaders in the various sections of our movement, and also the masses of the people, the chief principles which ought to guide the development of our foreign relations. That was one of the first tasks to be accomplished in order to prepare the ground for the practical carrying out of a foreign policy which would win back the independence of the nation in managing its external affairs and thus restore the real sovereignty of the Reich.
The fundamental and guiding principles which we must always bear in mind when studying this question is that foreign policy is only a means to an end and that the sole end to be pursued is the welfare of our own people. Every problem in foreign politics must be considered from this point of view, and this point of view alone. Shall such and such a solution prove advantageous to our people now or in the future, or will it injure their interests? That is the question.
This is the sole preoccupation that must occupy our minds in dealing with a question. Party politics, religious considerations, humanitarian ideals V all such and all other preoccupations must absolutely give way to this.

Before the War the purpose to which German foreign policy should have been devoted was to assure the supply of material necessities for the maintenance of our people and their children. And the way should have been prepared which would lead to this goal. Alliances should have been established which would have proved beneficial to us from this point of view and would have brought us the necessary auxiliary support. The task to be accomplished is the same today, but with this difference: In pre-War times it was a question of caring for the maintenance of the German people, backed up by the power which a strong and independent State then possessed, but our task today is to make our nation powerful once again by re-establishing a strong and independent State. The re-establishment of such a State is the prerequisite and necessary condition which must be fulfilled in order that we may be able subsequently to put into practice a foreign policy which will serve to guarantee the existence of our people in the future, fulfilling their needs and furnishing them with those necessities of life which they lack. In other words, the aim which Germany ought to pursue today in her foreign policy is to prepare the way for the recovery of her liberty tomorrow. In this connection there is a fundamental principle which we must keep steadily before our minds. It is this: The possibility of winning back the independence of a nation is not absolutely bound up with the question of territorial reintegration but it will suffice if a small remnant, no matter how small, of this nation and State will exist, provided it possesses the necessary independence to become not only the vehicle of' the common spirit of the whole people but also to prepare the way for the military fight to reconquer the nation's liberty.
When a people who amount to a hundred million souls tolerate the yoke of common slavery in order to prevent the territory belonging to their State from being broken up and divided, that is worse than if such a State and such a people were dismembered while one fragment still retained its complete independence. Of course, the natural proviso here is that this fragment must be inspired with a consciousness of the solemn duty that devolves upon it, not only to proclaim persistently the inviolable unity of its spiritual and cultural life with that of its detached members but also to prepare the means that are necessary for the military conflict which will finally liberate and re-unite the fragments that are suffering under oppression.
One must also bear in mind the fact that the restoration of lost districts which were formerly parts of the State, both ethnically and politically, must in the first instance be a question of winning back political power and independence for the motherland itself, and that in such cases the special interests of the lost districts must be uncompromisingly regarded as a matter of secondary importance in the face of the one main task, which is to win back the freedom of the central territory. For the detached and oppressed fragments of a nation or an imperial province cannot achieve their liberation through the expression of yearnings and protests on the part of the oppressed and abandoned, but only when the portion which has more or less retained its sovereign independence can resort to the use of force for the purpose of reconquering those territories that once belonged to the common fatherland.
Therefore, in order to reconquer lost territories the first condition to be fulfilled is to work energetically for the increased welfare and reinforcement of the strength of that portion of the State which has remained over after the partition. Thus the unquenchable yearning which slumbers in the hearts of the people must be awakened and restrengthened by bringing new forces to its aid, so that when the hour comes all will be devoted to the one purpose of liberating and uniting the whole people. Therefore, the interests of the separated territories must be subordinated to the one purpose. That one purpose must aim at obtaining for the central remaining portion such a measure of power and might that will enable it to enforce its will on the hostile will of the victor and thus redress the wrong. For flaming protests will not restore the oppressed territories to the bosom of a common Reich. That can be done only through the might of the sword.
The forging of this sword is a work that has to be done through the domestic policy which must be adopted by a national government. To see that the work of forging these arms is assured, and to recruit the men who will bear them, that is the task of the foreign policy.

In the first volume of this book I discussed the inadequacy of our policy of alliances before the War. There were four possible ways to secure the necessary foodstuffs for the maintenance of our people. Of these ways the fourth, which was the most unfavourable, was chosen. Instead of a sound policy of territorial expansion in Europe, our rulers embarked on a policy of colonial and trade expansion. That policy was all the more mistaken inasmuch as they presumed that in this way the danger of an armed conflict would be averted. The result of the attempt to sit on many stools at the same time might have been foreseen. It let us fall to the ground in the midst of them all. And the World War was only the last reckoning presented to the Reich to pay for the failure of its foreign policy.
The right way that should have been taken in those days was the third way I indicated: namely, to increase the strength of the Reich as a Continental Power by the acquisition of new territory in Europe. And at the same time a further expansion, through the subsequent acquisition of colonial territory, might thus be brought within the range of practical politics. Of course, this policy could not have been carried through except in alliance with England, or by devoting such abnormal efforts to the increase of military force and armament that, for forty or fifty years, all cultural undertakings would have to be completely relegated to the background. This responsibility might very well have been undertaken. The cultural importance of a nation is almost always dependent on its political freedom and independence. Political freedom is a prerequisite condition for the existence, or rather the creation, of great cultural undertakings. Accordingly no sacrifice can be too great when there is question of securing the political freedom of a nation. What might have to be deducted from the budget expenses for cultural purposes, in order to meet abnormal demands for increasing the military power of the State, can be generously paid back later on. Indeed, it may be said that after a State has concentrated all its resources in one effort for the purpose of securing its political independence a certain period of ease and renewed equilibrium sets in. And it often happens that the cultural spirit of the nation, which had been heretofore cramped and confined, now suddenly blooms forth. Thus Greece experienced the great Periclean era after the miseries it had suffered during the Persian Wars. And the Roman Republic turned its energies to the cultivation of a higher civilization when it was freed from the stress and worry of the Punic Wars.
Of course, it could not be expected that a parliamentary majority of feckless and stupid people would be capable of deciding on such a resolute policy for the absolute subordination of all other national interests to the one sole task of preparing for a future conflict of arms which would result in establishing the security of the State. The father of Frederick the Great sacrificed everything in order to be ready for that conflict; but the fathers of our absurd parliamentarian democracy, with the Jewish hall-mark, could not do it.
That is why, in pre-War times, the military preparation necessary to enable us to conquer new territory in Europe was only very mediocre, so that it was difficult to obtain the support of really helpful allies.
Those who directed our foreign affairs would not entertain even the idea of systematically preparing for war. They rejected every plan for the acquisition of territory in Europe. And by preferring a policy of colonial and trade expansion, they sacrificed the alliance with England, which was then possible. At the same time they neglected to seek the support of Russia, which would have been a logical proceeding. Finally they stumbled into the World War, abandoned by all except the ill-starred Habsburgs.

The characteristic of our present foreign policy is that it follows no discernible or even intelligible lines of action. Whereas before the War a mistake was made in taking the fourth way that I have mentioned, and this was pursued only in a halfhearted manner, since the Revolution not even the sharpest eye can detect any way that is being followed. Even more than before the War, there is absolutely no such thing as a systematic plan, except the systematic attempts that are made to destroy the last possibility of a national revival.
If we make an impartial examination of the situation existing in Europe today as far as concerns the relation of the various Powers to one another, we shall arrive at the following results:
For the past three hundred years the history of our Continent has been definitely determined by England's efforts to keep the European States opposed to one another in an equilibrium of forces, thus assuring the necessary protection of her own rear while she pursued the great aims of British world-policy.
The traditional tendency of British diplomacy ever since the reign of Queen Elizabeth has been to employ systematically every possible means to prevent any one Power from attaining a preponderant position over the other European Powers and, if necessary, to break that preponderance by means of armed intervention. The only parallel to this has been the tradition of the Prussian Army. England has made use of various forces to carry out its purpose, choosing them according to the actual situation or the task to be faced; but the will and determination to use them has always been the same. The more difficult England's position became in the course of history the more the British Imperial Government considered it necessary to maintain a condition of political paralysis among the various European States, as a result of their mutual rivalries. When the North American colonies obtained their political independence it became still more necessary for England to use every effort to establish and maintain the defence of her flank in Europe. In accordance with this policy she reduced Spain and the Netherlands to the position of inferior naval Powers. Having accomplished this, England concentrated all her forces against the increasing strength of France, until she brought about the downfall of Napoleon Bonaparte and therewith destroyed the military hegemony of France, which was the most dangerous rival that England had to fear.
The change of attitude in British statesmanship towards Germany took place only very slowly, not only because the German nation did not represent an obvious danger for England as long as it lacked national unification, but also because public opinion in England, which had been directed to other quarters by a system of propaganda that had been carried out for a long time, could be turned to a new direction only by slow degrees. In order to reach the proposed ends the calmly reflecting statesman had to bow to popular sentiment, which is the most powerful motive-force and is at the same time the most lasting in its energy. When the statesman has attained one of his ends, he must immediately turn his thoughts to others; but only by degrees and the slow work of propaganda can the sentiment of the masses be shaped into an instrument for the attainment of the new aims which their leaders have decided on.
As early as 1870-71 England had decided on the new stand it would take. On certain occasions minor oscillations in that policy were caused by the growing influence of America in the commercial markets of the world and also by the increasing political power of Russia; but, unfortunately, Germany did not take advantage of these and, therefore, the original tendency of British diplomacy was only reinforced.
England looked upon Germany as a Power which was of world importance commercially and politically and which, partly because of its enormous industrial development, assumed such threatening proportions that the two countries already contended against one another in the same sphere and with equal energy. The so-called peaceful conquest of the world by commercial enterprise, which, in the eyes of those who governed our public affairs at that time, represented the highest peak of human wisdom, was just the thing that led English statesmen to adopt a policy of resistance. That this resistance assumed the form of an organized aggression on a vast scale was in full conformity with a type of statesmanship which did not aim at the maintenance of a dubious world peace but aimed at the consolidation of British world-hegemony. In carrying out this policy, England allied herself with those countries which had a definite military importance. And that was in keeping with her traditional caution in estimating the power of her adversary and also in recognizing her own temporary weakness. That line of conduct cannot be called unscrupulous; because such a comprehensive organization for war purposes must not be judged from the heroic point of view but from that of expediency. The object of a diplomatic policy must not be to see that a nation goes down heroically but rather that it survives in a practical way. Hence every road that leads to this goal is opportune and the failure to take it must be looked upon as a criminal neglect of duty.
When the German Revolution took place England's fears of a German world hegemony came to a satisfactory end.
From that time it was not an English interest to see Germany totally cancelled from the geographic map of Europe. On the contrary, the astounding collapse which took place in November 1918 found British diplomacy confronted with a situation which at first appeared untenable.
For four-and-a-half years the British Empire had fought to break the presumed preponderance of a Continental Power. A sudden collapse now happened which removed this Power from the foreground of European affairs. That collapse disclosed itself finally in the lack of even the primordial instinct of self-preservation, so that European equilibrium was destroyed within forty-eight hours. Germany was annihilated and France became the first political Power on the Continent of Europe.
The tremendous propaganda which was carried on during this war for the purpose of encouraging the British public to stick it out to the end aroused all the primitive instincts and passions of the populace and was bound eventually to hang as a leaden weight on the decisions of British statesmen. With the colonial, economical and commercial destruction of Germany, England's war aims were attained. Whatever went beyond those aims was an obstacle to the furtherance of British interests. Only the enemies of England could profit by the disappearance of Germany as a Great Continental Power in Europe. In November 1918, however, and up to the summer of 1919, it was not possible for England to change its diplomatic attitude; because during the long war it had appealed, more than it had ever done before, to the feelings of the populace. In view of the feeling prevalent among its own people, England could not change its foreign policy; and another reason which made that impossible was the military strength to which other European Powers had now attained. France had taken the direction of peace negotiations into her own hands and could impose her law upon the others. During those months of negotiations and bargaining the only Power that could have altered the course which things were taking was Germany herself; but Germany was torn asunder by a civil war, and her so-called statesmen had declared themselves ready to accept any and every dictate imposed on them.
Now, in the comity of nations, when one nation loses its instinct for self-preservation and ceases to be an active member it sinks to the level of an enslaved nation and its territory will have to suffer the fate of a colony.
To prevent the power of France from becoming too great, the only form which English negotiations could take was that of participating in France's lust for aggrandizement.
As a matter of fact, England did not attain the ends for which she went to war. Not only did it turn out impossible to prevent a Continental Power from obtaining a preponderance over the ratio of strength in the Continental State system of Europe, but a large measure of preponderance had been obtained and firmly established.
In 1914 Germany, considered as a military State, was wedged in between two countries, one of which had equal military forces at its disposal and the other had greater military resources. Then there was England's overwhelming supremacy at sea. France and Russia alone hindered and opposed the excessive aggrandizement of Germany. The unfavourable geographical situation of the Reich, from the military point of view, might be looked upon as another coefficient of security against an exaggerated increase of German power. From the naval point of view, the configuration of the coast-line was unfavourable in case of a conflict with England. And though the maritime frontier was short and cramped, the land frontier was widely extended and open.
France's position is different today. It is the first military Power without a serious rival on the Continent. It is almost entirely protected by its southern frontier against Spain and Italy. Against Germany it is safeguarded by the prostrate condition of our country. A long stretch of its coast-line faces the vital nervous system of the British Empire. Not only could French aeroplanes and long-range batteries attack the vital centres of the British system, but submarines can threaten the great British commercial routes. A submarine campaign based on France's long Atlantic coast and on the European and North African coasts of the Mediterranean would have disastrous consequences for England.
Thus the political results of the war to prevent the development of German power was the creation of a French hegemony on the Continent. The military result was the consolidation of France as the first Continental Power and the recognition of American equality on the sea. The economic result was the cession of great spheres of British interests to her former allies and associates.
The Balkanization of Europe, up to a certain degree, was desirable and indeed necessary in the light of the traditional policy of Great Britain, just as France desired the Balkanization of Germany.
What England has always desired, and will continue to desire, is to prevent any one Continental Power in Europe from attaining a position of world importance. Therefore England wishes to maintain a definite equilibrium of forces among the European States V for this equilibrium seems a necessary condition of England's world-hegemony.
What France has always desired, and will continue to desire, is to prevent Germany from becoming a homogeneous Power. Therefore France wants to maintain a system of small German States whose forces would balance one another and over which there should be no central government. Then, by acquiring possession of the left bank of the Rhine, she would have fulfilled the pre-requisite conditions for the establishment and security of her hegemony in Europe.
The final aims of French diplomacy must be in perpetual opposition to the final tendencies of British statesmanship.

Taking these considerations as a starting-point, anyone who investigates the possibilities that exist for Germany to find allies must come to the conclusion that there remains no other way of forming an alliance except to approach England. The consequences of England's war policy were and are disastrous for Germany. However, we cannot close our eyes to the fact that, as things stand today, the necessary interests of England no longer demand the destruction of Germany. On the contrary, British diplomacy must tend more and more, from year to year, towards curbing France's unbridled lust after hegemony. Now, a policy of alliances cannot be pursued by bearing past grievances in mind, but it can be rendered fruitful by taking account of past experiences. Experience should have taught us that alliances formed for negative purposes suffer from intrinsic weakness. The destinies of nations can be welded together only under the prospect of a common success, of common gain and conquest, in short, a common extension of power for both contracting parties.
The ignorance of our people on questions of foreign politics is clearly demonstrated by the reports in the daily Press which talk about "friendship towards Germany" on the part of one or the other foreign statesman, whereby this professed friendship is taken as a special guarantee that such persons will champion a policy that will be advantageous to our people. That kind of talk is absurd to an incredible degree. It means speculating on the unparalleled simplicity of the average German philistine when he comes to talking politics. There is not any British, American, or Italian statesman who could ever be described as 'pro-German'. Every Englishman must naturally be British first of all. The same is true of every American. And no Italian statesman would be prepared to adopt a policy that was not pro-Italian. Therefore, anyone who expects to form alliances with foreign nations on the basis of a pro-German feeling among the statesmen of other countries is either an ass or a deceiver. The necessary condition for linking together the destinies of nations is never mutual esteem or mutual sympathy, but rather the prospect of advantages accruing to the contracting parties. It is true that a British statesman will always follow a pro-British and not a pro-German policy; but it is also true that certain definite interests involved in this pro-British policy may coincide on various grounds with German interests. Naturally that can be so only to a certain degree and the situation may one day be completely reversed. But the art of statesmanship is shown when at certain periods there is question of reaching a certain end and when allies are found who must take the same road in order to defend their own interests.
The practical application of these principles at the present time must depend on the answer given to the following questions: What States are not vitally interested in the fact that, by the complete abolition of a German Central Europe, the economic and military power of France has reached a position of absolute hegemony? Which are the States that, in consideration of the conditions which are essential to their own existence and in view of the tradition that has hitherto been followed in conducting their foreign policy, envisage such a development as a menace to their own future?
Finally, we must be quite clear on the following point: France is and will remain the implacable enemy of Germany. It does not matter what Governments have ruled or will rule in France, whether Bourbon or Jacobin, Napoleonic or Bourgeois-Democratic, Clerical Republican or Red Bolshevik, their foreign policy will always be directed towards acquiring possession of the Rhine frontier and consolidating France's position on this river by disuniting and dismembering Germany.
England did not want Germany to be a world Power. France desired that there should be no Power called Germany. Therefore there was a very essential difference. To-day we are not fighting for our position as a World-Power but only for the existence of our country, for national unity and the daily bread of our children. Taking this point of view into consideration, only two States remain to us as possible allies in Europe - England and Italy.
England is not pleased to see a France on whose military power there is no check in Europe, so that one day she might undertake the support of a policy which in some way or other might come into conflict with British interests. Nor can England be pleased to see France in possession of such enormous coal and iron mines in Western Europe as would make it possible for her one day to play a role in world-commerce which might threaten danger to British interests. Moreover, England can never be pleased to see a France whose political position on the Continent, owing to the dismemberment of the rest of Europe, seems so absolutely assured that she is not only able to resume a French world-policy on great lines but would even find herself compelled to do so. The bombs which were once dropped by the Zeppelins might be multiplied by the thousand every night. The military predominance of France is a weight that presses heavily on the hearts of the World Empire over which Great Britain rules.
Nor can Italy desire, nor will she desire, any further strengthening of France's power in Europe. The future of Italy will be conditioned by the development of events in the Mediterranean and by the political situation in the area surrounding that sea. The reason that led Italy into the War was not a desire to contribute towards the aggrandizement of France but rather to deal her hated Adriatic rival a mortal blow. Any further increase of France's power on the Continent would hamper the development of Italy's future, and Italy does not deceive herself by thinking that racial kindred between the nations will in any way eliminate rivalries.
Serious and impartial consideration proves that it is these two States, Great Britain and Italy, whose natural interests not only do not contrast with the conditions essential to the existence of the German nation but are identical with them, to a certain extent.

But when we consider the possibilities of alliances we must be careful not to lose sight of three factors. The first factor concerns ourselves; the other two concern the two States I have mentioned.
Is it at all possible to conclude an alliance with Germany as it is today? Can a Power which would enter into an alliance for the purpose of securing assistance in an effort to carry out its own offensive aims V can such a Power form an alliance with a State whose rulers have for years long presented a spectacle of deplorable incompetence and pacifist cowardice and where the majority of the people, blinded by democratic and Marxist teachings, betray the interests of their own people and country in a manner that cries to Heaven for vengeance? As things stand today, can any Power hope to establish useful relations and hope to fight together for the furtherance of their common interests with this State which manifestly has neither the will nor the courage to move a finger even in the defence of its bare existence? Take the case of a Power for which an alliance must be much more than a pact to guarantee a state of slow decomposition, such as happened with the old and disastrous Triple Alliance. Can such a Power associate itself for life or death with a State whose most characteristic signs of activity consist of a rampant servility in external relations and a scandalous repression of the national spirit at home? Can such a Power be associated with a State in which there is nothing of greatness, because its whole policy does not deserve it? Or can alliances be made with Governments which are in the hands of men who are despised by their own fellow-citizens and consequently are not respected abroad?
No. A self-respecting Power which expects something more from alliances than commissions for greedy Parliamentarians will not and cannot enter into an alliance with our present-day Germany. Our present inability to form alliances furnishes the principle and most solid basis for the combined action of the enemies who are robbing us. Because Germany does not defend itself in any other way except by the flamboyant protests of our parliamentarian elect, there is no reason why the rest of the world should take up the fight in our defence. And God does not follow the principle of granting freedom to a nation of cowards, despite all the implications of our 'patriotic' associations. Therefore, for those States which have not a direct interest in our annihilation no other course remains open except to participate in France's campaign of plunder, at least to make it impossible for the strength of France to be exclusively aggrandized thereby.
In the second place, we must not forget that among the nations which were formerly our enemies mass-propaganda has turned the opinions and feelings of large sections of the population in a fixed direction. When for years long a foreign nation has been presented to the public as a horde of 'Huns', 'Robbers', 'Vandals', etc., they cannot suddenly be presented as something different, and the enemy of yesterday cannot be recommended as the ally of tomorrow.
But the third factor deserves greater attention, since it is of essential importance for establishing future alliances in Europe.
From the political point of view it is not in the interests of Great Britain that Germany should be ruined even still more, but such a proceeding would be very much in the interests of the international money-markets manipulated by the Jew. The cleavage between the official, or rather traditional, British statesmanship and the controlling influence of the Jew on the money-markets is nowhere so clearly manifested as in the various attitudes taken towards problems of British foreign policy. Contrary to the interests and welfare of the British State, Jewish finance demands not only the absolute economic destruction of Germany but its complete political enslavement. The internationalization of our German economic system, that is to say, the transference of our productive forces to the control of Jewish international finance, can be completely carried out only in a State that has been politically Bolshevized. But the Marxist fighting forces, commanded by international and Jewish stock-exchange capital, cannot finally smash the national resistance in Germany without friendly help from outside. For this purpose French armies would first have to invade and overcome the territory of the German Reich until a state of international chaos would set in, and then the country would have to succumb to Bolshevik storm troops in the service of Jewish international finance.
Hence it is that at the present time the Jew is the great agitator for the complete destruction of Germany. Whenever we read of attacks against Germany taking place in any part of the world the Jew is always the instigator. In peace-time, as well as during the War, the Jewish-Marxist stock-exchange Press systematically stirred up hatred against Germany, until one State after another abandoned its neutrality and placed itself at the service of the world coalition, even against the real interests of its own people.
The Jewish way of reasoning thus becomes quite clear. The Bolshevization of Germany, that is to say, the extermination of the patriotic and national German intellectuals, thus making it possible to force German Labour to bear the yoke of international Jewish finance V that is only the overture to the movement for expanding Jewish power on a wider scale and finally subjugating the world to its rule. As has so often happened in history, Germany is the chief pivot of this formidable struggle. If our people and our State should fall victims to these oppressors of the nations, lusting after blood and money, the whole earth would become the prey of that hydra. Should Germany be freed from its grip, a great menace for the nations of the world would thereby be eliminated.
It is certain that Jewry uses all its subterranean activities not only for the purpose of keeping alive old national enmities against Germany but even to spread them farther and render them more acute wherever possible. It is no less certain that these activities are only very partially in keeping with the true interests of the nations among whose people the poison is spread. As a general principle, Jewry carries on its campaign in the various countries by the use of arguments that are best calculated to appeal to the mentality of the respective nations and are most likely to produce the desired results; for Jewry knows what the public feeling is in each country. Our national stock has been so much adulterated by the mixture of alien elements that, in its fight for power, Jewry can make use of the more or less 'cosmopolitan' circles which exist among us, inspired by the pacifist and international ideologies. In France they exploit the well-known and accurately estimated chauvinistic spirit. In England they exploit the commercial and world-political outlook. In short, they always work upon the essential characteristics that belong to the mentality of each nation. When they have in this way achieved a decisive influence in the political and economic spheres they can drop the limitations which their former tactics necessitated, now disclosing their real intentions and the ends for which they are fighting. Their work of destruction now goes ahead more quickly, reducing one State after another to a mass of ruins on which they will erect the everlasting and sovereign Jewish Empire.
In England, and in Italy, the contrast between the better kind of solid statesmanship and the policy of the Jewish stock-exchange often becomes strikingly evident.
Only in France there exists today more than ever before a profound accord between the views of the stock-exchange, controlled by the Jews, and the chauvinistic policy pursued by French statesmen. This identity of views constitutes an immense, danger for Germany. And it is just for this reason that France is and will remain by far the most dangerous enemy. The French people, who are becoming more and more obsessed by negroid ideas, represent a threatening menace to the existence of the white race in Europe, because they are bound up with the Jewish campaign for world-domination. For the contamination caused by the influx of negroid blood on the Rhine, in the very heart of Europe, is in accord with the sadist and perverse lust for vengeance on the part of the hereditary enemy of our people, just as it suits the purpose of the cool calculating Jew who would use this means of introducing a process of bastardization in the very centre of the European Continent and, by infecting the white race with the blood of an inferior stock, would destroy the foundations of its independent existence.
France's activities in Europe today, spurred on by the French lust for vengeance and systematically directed by the Jew, are a criminal attack against the life of the white race and will one day arouse against the French people a spirit of vengeance among a generation which will have recognized the original sin of mankind in this racial pollution.
As far as concerns Germany, the danger which France represents involves the duty of relegating all sentiment to a subordinate place and extending the hand to those who are threatened with the same menace and who are not willing to suffer or tolerate France's lust for hegemony.
For a long time yet to come there will be only two Powers in Europe with which it may be possible for Germany to conclude an alliance. These Powers are Great Britain and Italy.

If we take the trouble to cast a glance backwards on the way in which German foreign policy has been conducted since the Revolution we must, in view of the constant and incomprehensible acts of submission on the part. of our governments, either lose heart or become fired with rage and take up the cudgels against such a regime. Their way of acting cannot be attributed to a want of understanding, because what seemed to every thinking man to be inconceivable was accomplished by the leaders of the November parties with their Cyclopean intellects. They bowed to France and begged her favour. Yes, during all these recent years, with the touching simplicity of incorrigible visionaries, they went on their knees to France again and again. They perpetuaily wagged their tails before the Grande Nation. And in each trick-o'-the-loop which the French hangmen performed with his rope they recognized a visible change of feeling. Our real political wire-pullers never shared in this absurd credulity. The idea of establishing a friendship with France was for them only a means of thwarting every attempt on Germany's part to adopt a practical policy of alliances. They had no illusions about French aims or those of the men behind the scenes in France. What induced them to take up such an attitude and to act as if they honestly believed that the fate of Germany could possibly be changed in this way was the cool calculation that if this did not happen our people might take the reins into their own hands and choose another road.
Of course it is difficult for us to propose England as our possible ally in the future. Our Jewish Press has always been adept in concentrating hatred against England particularly. And many of our good German simpletons perch on these branches which the Jews have limed to capture them. They babble about a restoration of German sea power and protest against the robbery of our colonies. Thus they furnish material which the contriving Jew transmits to his clansmen in England, so that it can be used there for purposes of practical propaganda. For our simple-minded bourgeoisie who indulge in politics can take in only little by little the idea that today we have not to fight for 'sea-power' and such things. Even before the War it was absurd to direct the national energies of Germany towards this end without first having secured our position in Europe. Such a hope today reaches that peak of absurdity which may be called criminal in the domain of politics.
Often one becomes really desperate on seeing how the Jewish wire-pullers succeeded in concentrating the attention of the people on things which are only of secondary importance today, They incited the people to demonstrations and protests while at the same time France was tearing our nation asunder bit by bit and systematically removing the very foundations of our national independence.
In this connection I have to think of the Wooden Horse in the riding of which the Jew showed extraordinary skill during these years. I mean South Tyrol.
Yes, South Tyrol. The reason why I take up this question here is just because I want to call to account that shameful canaille who relied on the ignorance and short memories of large sections of our people and stimulated a national indignation which is as foreign to the real character of our parliamentary impostors as the idea of respect for private property is to a magpie.
I should like to state here that I was one of those who, at the time when the fate of South Tyrol was being decided V that is to say, from August 1914 to November 1918 V took my place where that country also could have been effectively defended, namely, in the Army. I did my share in the fighting during those years, not merely to save South Tyrol from being lost but also to save every other German province for the Fatherland.
The parliamentary sharpers did not take part in that combat. The whole canaille played party politics. On the other hand, we carried on the fight in the belief that a victorious issue of the War would enable the German nation to keep South Tyrol also; but the loud-mouthed traitor carried on a seditious agitation against such a victorious issue, until the fighting Siegfried succumbed to the dagger plunged in his back. It was only natural that the inflammatory and hypocritical speeches of the elegantly dressed parliamentarians on the Vienna Rathaus Platz or in front of the Feldherrnhalle in Munich could not save South Tyrol for Germany. That could be done only by the fighting battalions at the Front. Those who broke up that fighting front betrayed South Tyrol, as well as the other districts of Germany.
Anyone who thinks that the South Tyrol question can be solved today by protests and manifestations and processions organized by various associations is either a humbug or merely a German philistine.
In this regard it must be quite clearly understood that we cannot get back the territories we have lost if we depend on solemn imprecations before the throne of the Almighty God or on pious hopes in a League of Nations, but only by the force of arms.
Therefore the only remaining question is: Who is ready to take up arms for the restoration of the lost territories?
As far as concerns myself personally, I can state with a good conscience that I would have courage enough to take part in a campaign for the reconquest of South Tyrol, at the head of parliamentarian storm battalions consisting of parliamentarian gasconaders and all the party leaders, also the various Councillors of State. Only the Devil knows whether I might have the luck of seeing a few shells suddenly burst over this 'burning' demonstration of protest. I think that if a fox were to break into a poultry yard his presence would not provoke such a helter-skelter and rush to cover as we should witness in the band of 'protesters'.
The vilest part of it all is that these talkers themselves do not believe that anything can be achieved in this way. Each one of them knows very well how harmless and ineffective their whole pretence is. They do it only because it is easier now to babble about the restoration of South Tyrol than to fight for its preservation in days gone by.
Each one plays the part that he is best capable of playing in life. In those days we offered our blood. To-day these people are engaged in whetting their tusks.
It is particularly interesting to note today how legitimist circles in Vienna preen themselves on their work for the restoration of South Tyrol. Seven years ago their august and illustrious Dynasty helped, by an act of perjury and treason, to make it possible for the victorious world-coalition to take away South Tyrol. At that time these circles supported the perfidious policy adopted by their Dynasty and did not trouble themselves in the least about the fate of South Tyrol or any other province. Naturally it is easier today to take up the fight for this territory, since the present struggle is waged with 'the weapons of the mind'. Anyhow, it is easier to join in a 'meeting of protestation' and talk yourself hoarse in giving vent to the noble indignation that fills your breast, or stain your finger with the writing of a newspaper article, than to blow up a bridge, for instance, during the occupation of the Ruhr.
The reason why certain circles have made the question of South Tyrol the pivot of German-Italian relations during the past few years is quite evident. Jews and Habsburg legitimists are greatly interested in preventing Germany from pursuing a policy of alliance which might lead one day to the resurgence of a free German fatherland. It is not out of love for South Tyrol that they play this role today V for their policy would turn out detrimental rather than helpful to the interests of that province V but through fear of an agreement being established between Germany and Italy.
A tendency towards lying and calumny lies in the nature of these people, and that explains how they can calmly and brazenly attempt to twist things in such a way as to make it appear that we have 'betrayed' South Tyrol.
There is one clear answer that must be given to these gentlemen. It is this: Tyrol has been betrayed, in the first place, by every German who was sound in limb and body and did not offer himself for service at the Front during 1914V1918 to do his duty towards his country.
In the second place, Tyrol was betrayed by every man who, during those years did not help to reinforce the national spirit and the national powers of resistance, so as to enable the country to carry through the War and keep up the fight to the very end.
In the third place, South Tyrol was betrayed by everyone who took part in the November Revolution, either directly by his act or indirectly by a cowardly toleration of it, and thus broke the sole weapon that could have saved South Tyrol.
In the fourth place, South Tyrol was betrayed by those parties and their adherents who put their signatures to the disgraceful treaties of Versailles and St. Germain.
And so the matter stands, my brave gentlemen, who make your protests only with words.
To-day I am guided by a calm and cool recognition of the fact that the lost territories cannot be won back by the whetted tongues of parliamentary spouters but only by the whetted sword; in other words, through a fight where blood will have to be shed.
Now, I have no hesitations in saying that today, once the die has been cast, it is not only impossible to win back South Tyrol through a war but I should definitely take my stand against such a movement, because I am convinced that it would not be possible to arouse the national enthusiasm of the German people and maintain it in such a way as would be necessary in order to carry through such a war to a successful issue. On the contrary, I believe that if we have to shed German blood once again it would be criminal to do so for the sake of liberating 200,000 Germans, when more than seven million neighbouring Germans are suffering under foreign domination and a vital artery of the German nation has become a playground for hordes of African negros.
If the German nation is to put an end to a state of things which threatens to wipe it off the map of Europe it must not fall into the errors of the pre-War period and make the whole world its enemy. But it must ascertain who is its most dangerous enemy so that it can concentrate all its forces in a struggle to beat him. And if, in order to carry through this struggle to victory, sacrifices should be made in other quarters, future generations will not condemn us for that. They will take account of the miseries and anxieties which led us to make such a bitter decision, and in the light of that consideration they will more clearly recognize the brilliancy of our success.
Again I must say here that we must always be guided by the fundamental principle that, as a preliminary to winning back lost provinces, the political independence and strength of the motherland must first be restored.
The first task which has to be accomplished is to make that independence possible and to secure it by a wise policy of alliances, which presupposes an energetic management of our public affairs.
But it is just on this point that we, National Socialists, have to guard against being dragged into the tow of our ranting bourgeois patriots who take their cue from the Jew. It would be a disaster if, instead of preparing for the coming struggle, our Movement also were to busy itself with mere protests by word of mouth.
It was the fantastic idea of a Nibelungen alliance with the decomposed body of the Habsburg State that brought about Germany's ruin. Fantastic sentimentality in dealing with the possibilities of foreign policy today would be the best means of preventing our revival for innumerable years to come.

Here I must briefly answer the objections which may be raised in regard to the three questions I have put.
1. Is it possible at all to form an alliance with the present Germany, whose weakness is so visible to all eyes?
2. Can the ex-enemy nations change their attitude towards Germany?
3. In other nations is not the influence of Jewry stronger than the recognition of their own interests, and does not this influence thwart all their good intentions and render all their plans futile?
I think that I have already dealt adequately with one of the two aspects of the first point. Of course nobody will enter into an alliance with the present Germany. No Power in the world would link its fortunes with a State whose government does not afford grounds for the slightest confidence. As regards the attempt which has been made by many of our compatriots to explain the conduct of the Government by referring to the woeful state of public feeling and thus excuse such conduct, I must strongly object to that way of looking at things.
The lack of character which our people have shown during the last six years is deeply distressing. The indifference with which they have treated the most urgent necessities of our nation might veritably lead one to despair. Their cowardice is such that it often cries to heaven for vengeance. But one must never forget that we are dealing with a people who gave to the world, a few years previously, an admirable example of the highest human qualities. From the first days of August 1914 to the end of the tremendous struggle between the nations, no people in the world gave a better proof of manly courage, tenacity and patient endurance, than this people gave who are so cast down and dispirited today. Nobody will dare to assert that the lack of character among our people today is typical of them. What we have to endure today, among us and around us, is due only to the influence of the sad and distressing effects that followed the high treason committed on November 9th, 1918. More than ever before the word of the poet is true: that evil can only give rise to evil. But even in this epoch those qualities among our people which are fundamentally sound are not entirely lost. They slumber in the depths of the national conscience, and sometimes in the clouded firmament we see certain qualities like shining lights which Germany will one day remember as the first symptoms of a revival. We often see young Germans assembling and forming determined resolutions, as they did in 1914, freely and willingly to offer themselves as a sacrifice on the altar of their beloved Fatherland. Millions of men have resumed work, whole-heartedly and zealously, as if no revolution had ever affected them. The smith is at his anvil once again. And the farmer drives his plough. The scientist is in his laboratory. And everybody is once again attending to his duty with the same zeal and devotion as formerly.
The oppression which we suffer from at the hands of our enemies is no longer taken, as it formerly was, as a matter for laughter; but it is resented with bitterness and anger. There can be no doubt that a great change of attitude has taken place.
This evolution has not yet taken the shape of a conscious intention and movement to restore the political power and independence of our nation; but the blame for this must be attributed to those utterly incompetent people who have no natural endowments to qualify them for statesmanship and yet have been governing our nation since 1918 and leading it to ruin.
Yes. If anybody accuses our people today he ought to be asked: What is being done to help them? What are we to say of the poor support which the people give to any measures introduced by the Government? Is it not true that such a thing as a Government hardly exists at all? And must we consider the poor support which it receives as a sign of a lack of vitality in the nation itself; or is it not rather a proof of the complete failure of the methods employed in the management of this valuable trust? What have our Governments done to re-awaken in the nation a proud spirit of self-assertion, up-standing manliness, and a spirit of righteous defiance towards its enemies?
In 1919, when the Peace Treaty was imposed on the German nation, there were grounds for hoping that this instrument of unrestricted oppression would help to reinforce the outcry for the freedom of Germany. Peace treaties which make demands that fall like a whip-lash on the people turn out not infrequently to be the signal of a future revival.
To what purpose could the Treaty of Versailles have been exploited?
In the hands of a willing Government, how could this instrument of unlimited blackmail and shameful humiliation have been applied for the purpose of arousing national sentiment to its highest pitch? How could a well-directed system of propaganda have utilized the sadist cruelty of that treaty so as to change the indifference of the people to a feeling of indignation and transform that indignation into a spirit of dauntless resistance?
Each point of that Treaty could have been engraved on the minds and hearts of the German people and burned into them until sixty million men and women would find their souls aflame with a feeling of rage and shame; and a torrent of fire would burst forth as from a furnace, and one common will would be forged from it, like a sword of steel. Then the people would join in the common cry: "To arms again!"
Yes. A treaty of that kind can be used for such a purpose. Its unbounded oppression and its impudent demands were an excellent propaganda weapon to arouse the sluggish spirit of the nation and restore its vitality.
Then, from the child's story-book to the last newspaper in the country, and every theatre and cinema, every pillar where placards are posted and every free space on the hoardings should be utilized in the service of this one great mission, until the faint-hearted cry, "Lord, deliver us," which our patriotic associations send up to Heaven today would be transformed into an ardent prayer: "Almighty God, bless our arms when the hour comes. Be just, as Thou hast always been just. Judge now if we deserve our freedom. Lord, bless our struggle."
All opportunities were neglected and nothing was done.
Who will be surprised now if our people are not such as they should be or might be? The rest of the world looks upon us only as its valet, or as a kindly dog that will lick its master's hand after he has been whipped.
Of course the possibilities of forming alliances with other nations are hampered by the indifference of our own people, but much more by our Governments. They have been and are so corrupt that now, after eight years of indescribable oppression, there exists only a faint desire for liberty.
In order that our nation may undertake a policy of alliances, it must restore its prestige among other nations, and it must have an authoritative Government that is not a drudge in the service of foreign States and the taskmaster of its own people, but rather the herald of the national will.
If our people had a government which would look upon this as its mission, six years would not have passed before a courageous foreign policy on the part of the Reich would find a corresponding support among the people, whose desire for freedom would be encouraged and intensified thereby.

The third objection referred to the difficulty of changing the ex-enemy nations into friendly allies. That objection may be answered as follows:
The general anti-German psychosis which has developed in other countries through the war propaganda must of necessity continue to exist as long as there is not a renaissance of the national conscience among the German people, so that the German Reich may once again become a State which is able to play its part on the chess-board of European politics and with whom the others feel that they can play. Only when the Government and the people feel absolutely certain of being able to undertake a policy of alliances can one Power or another, whose interests coincide with ours, think of instituting a system of propaganda for the purpose of changing public opinion among its own people. Naturally it will take several years of persevering and ably directed work to reach such a result. Just because a long period is needed in order to change the public opinion of a country, it is necessary to reflect calmly before such an enterprise be undertaken. This means that one must not enter upon this kind of work unless one is absolutely convinced that it is worth the trouble and that it will bring results which will be valuable in the future. One must not try to change the opinions and feelings of a people by basing one's actions on the vain cajolery of a more or less brilliant Foreign Minister, but only if there be a tangible guarantee that the new orientation will be really useful. Otherwise public opinion in the country dealt with may be just thrown into a state of complete confusion. The most reliable guarantee that can be given for the possibility of subsequently entering into an alliance with a certain State cannot be found in the loquacious suavity of some individual member of the Government, but in the manifest stability of a definite and practical policy on the part of the Government as a whole, and in the support which is given to that policy by the public opinion of the country. The faith of the public in this policy will be strengthened all the more if the Government organize one active propaganda to explain its efforts and secure public support for them, and if public opinion favourably responds to the Government's policy.
Therefore a nation in such a position as ours will be looked upon as a possible ally if public opinion supports the Government's policy and if both are united in the same enthusiastic determination to carry through the fight for national freedom. That condition of affairs must be firmly established before any attempt can be made to change public opinion in other countries which, for the sake of defending their most elementary interests, are disposed to take the road shoulder-to-shoulder with a companion who seems able to play his part in defending those interests. In other words, this means that they will be ready to establish an alliance.
For this purpose, however, one thing is necessary. Seeing that the task of bringing about a radical change in the public opinion of a country calls for hard work, and many do not at first understand what it means, it would be both foolish and criminal to commit mistakes which could be used as weapons in the hands of those who are opposed to such a change.
One must recognize the fact that it takes a long time for a people to understand completely the inner purposes which a Government has in view, because it is not possible to explain the ultimate aims of the preparations that are being made to carry through a certain policy. In such cases the Government has to count on the blind faith of the masses or the intuitive instinct of the ruling caste that is more developed intellectually. But since many people lack this insight, this political acumen and faculty for seeing into the trend of affairs, and since political considerations forbid a public explanation of why such and such a course is being followed, a certain number of leaders in intellectual circles will always oppose new tendencies which, because they are not easily grasped, can be pointed to as mere experiments. And that attitude arouses opposition among conservative circles regarding the measures in question.
For this reason a strict duty devolves upon everybody not to allow any weapon to fall into the hands of those who would interfere with the work of bringing about a mutual understanding with other nations. This is specially so in our case, where we have to deal with the pretentions and fantastic talk of our patriotic associations and our small bourgeoisie who talk politics in the cafes. That the cry for a new war fleet, the restoration of our colonies, etc., has no chance of ever being carried out in practice will not be denied by anyone who thinks over the matter calmly and seriously. These harmless and sometimes half-crazy spouters in the war of protests are serving the interests of our mortal enemy, while the manner in which their vapourings are exploited for political purposes in England cannot be considered as advantageous to Germany.
They squander their energies in futile demonstrations against the whole world. These demonstrations are harmful to our interests and those who indulge in them forget the fundamental principle which is a preliminary condition of all success. What thou doest, do it thoroughly. Because we keep on howling against five or ten States we fail to concentrate all the forces of our national will and our physical strength for a blow at the heart of our bitterest enemy. And in this way we sacrifice the possibility of securing an alliance which would reinforce our strength for that decisive conflict.
Here, too, there is a mission for National Socialism to fulfil. It must teach our people not to fix their attention on the little things but rather on the great things, not to exhaust their energies on secondary objects, and not to forget that the object we shall have to fight for one day is the bare existence of our people and that the sole enemy we shall have to strike at is that Power which is robbing us of this existence.
It may be that we shall have many a heavy burden to bear. But this is by no means an excuse for refusing to listen to reason and raise nonsensical outcries against the rest of the world, instead of concentrating all our forces against the most deadly enemy.
Moreover, the German people will have no moral right to complain of the manner in which the rest of the world acts towards them, as long as they themselves have not called to account those criminals who sold and betrayed their own country. We cannot hope to be taken very seriously if we indulge in long-range abuse and protests against England and Italy and then allow those scoundrels to circulate undisturbed in our own country who were in the pay of the enemy war propaganda, took the weapons out of our hands, broke the backbone of our resistance and bartered away the Reich for thirty pieces of silver.
The enemy did only what was expected. And we ought to learn from the stand he took and the way he acted.
Anyone who cannot rise to the level of this outlook must reflect that otherwise there would remain nothing else than to renounce the idea of adopting any policy of alliances for the future. For if we cannot form an alliance with England because she has robbed us of our colonies, or with Italy because she has taken possession of South Tyrol, or with Poland or Czechoslovakia, then there remains no other possibility of an alliance in Europe except with France which, inter alia, has robbed us of Alsace and Lorraine.
There can scarcely be any doubt as to whether this last alternative would be advantageous to the interests of the German people. But if it be defended by somebody one is always doubtful whether that person be merely a simpleton or an astute rogue.
As far as concerns the leaders in these activities, I think the latter hypothesis is true.
A change in public feeling among those nations which have hitherto been enemies and whose true interests will correspond in the future with ours could be effected, as far as human calculation goes, if the internal strength of our State and our manifest determination to secure our own existence made it clear that we should be valuable allies. Moreover, it is necessary that our incompetent way of doing things and our criminal conduct in some matters should not furnish grounds which may be utilized for purposes of propaganda by those who would oppose our projects of establishing an alliance with one or other of our former enemies.

The answer to the third question is still more difficult: Is it conceivable that they who represent the true interests of those nations which may possibly form an alliance with us could put their views into practice against the will of the Jew, who is the mortal enemy of national and independent popular States?
For instance, could the motive-forces of Great Britain's traditional statesmanship smash the disastrous influence of the Jew, or could they not?
This question, as I have already said, is very difficult to answer. The answer depends on so many factors that it is impossible to form a conclusive judgment. Anyhow, one thing is certain: The power of the Government in a given State and at a definite period may be so firmly established in the public estimation and so absolutely at the service of the country's interests that the forces of international Jewry could not possibly organize a real and effective obstruction against measures considered to be politically necessary.
The fight which Fascist Italy waged against Jewry's three principal weapons, the profound reasons for which may not have been consciously understood (though I do not believe this myself) furnishes the best proof that the poison fangs of that Power which transcends all State boundaries are being drawn, even though in an indirect way. The prohibition of Freemasonry and secret societies, the suppression of the supernational Press and the definite abolition of Marxism, together with the steadily increasing consolidation of the Fascist concept of the State V all this will enable the Italian Government, in the course of some years, to advance more and more the interests of the Italian people without paying any attention to the hissing of the Jewish world-hydra.
The English situation is not so favourable. In that country which has 'the freest democracy' the Jew dictates his will, almost unrestrained but indirectly, through his influence on public opinion. And yet there is a perpetual struggle in England between those who are entrusted with the defence of State interests and the protagonists of Jewish world-dictatorship.
After the War it became clear for the first time how sharp this contrast is, when British statesmanship took one stand on the Japanese problem and the Press took a different stand.
Just after the War had ceased the old mutual antipathy between America and Japan began to reappear. Naturally the great European Powers could not remain indifferent to this new war menace. In England, despite the ties of kinship, there was a certain amount of jealousy and anxiety over the growing importance of the United States in all spheres of international economics and politics. What was formerly a colonial territory, the daughter of a great mother, seemed about to become the new mistress of the world. It is quite understandable that today England should re-examine her old alliances and that British statesmanship should look anxiously to the danger of a coming moment when the cry would no longer be: "Britain rules the waves", but rather: "The Seas belong to the United States".
The gigantic North American State, with the enormous resources of its virgin soil, is much more invulnerable than the encircled German Reich. Should a day come when the die which will finally decide the destinies of the nations will have to be cast in that country, England would be doomed if she stood alone. Therefore she eagerly reaches out her hand to a member of the yellow race and enters an alliance which, from the racial point of view is perhaps unpardonable; but from the political viewpoint it represents the sole possibility of reinforcing Britain's world position in face of the strenuous developments taking place on the American continent.
Despite the fact that they fought side by side on the European battlefields, the British Government did not decide to conclude an alliance with the Asiatic partner, yet the whole Jewish Press opposed the idea of a Japanese alliance.
How can we explain the fact that up to 1918 the Jewish Press championed the policy of the British Government against the German Reich and then suddenly began to take its own way and showed itself disloyal to the Government?
It was not in the interests of Great Britain to have Germany annihilated, but primarily a Jewish interest. And today the destruction of Japan would serve British political interests less than it would serve the far-reaching intentions of those who are leading the movement that hopes to establish a Jewish world-empire. While England is using all her endeavours to maintain her position in the world, the Jew is organizing his aggressive plans for the conquest of it.
He already sees the present European States as pliant instruments in his hands, whether indirectly through the power of so-called Western Democracy or in the form of a direct domination through Russian Bolshevism. But it is not only the old world that he holds in his snare; for a like fate threatens the new world. Jews control the financial forces of America on the stock exchange. Year after year the Jew increases his hold on Labour in a nation of 120 million souls. But a very small section still remains quite independent and is thus the cause of chagrin to the Jew.
The Jews show consummate skill in manipulating public opinion and using it as an instrument in fighting for their own future.
The great leaders of Jewry are confident that the day is near at hand when the command given in the Old Testament will be carried out and the Jews will devour the other nations of the earth.
Among this great mass of denationalized countries which have become Jewish colonies one independent State could bring about the ruin of the whole structure at the last moment. The reason for doing this would be that Bolshevism as a world-system cannot continue to exist unless it encompasses the whole earth. Should one State preserve its national strength and its national greatness the empire of the Jewish satrapy, like every other tyranny, would have to succumb to the force of the national idea.
As a result of his millennial experience in accommodating himself to surrounding circumstances, the Jew knows very well that he can undermine the existence of European nations by a process of racial bastardization, but that he could hardly do the same to a national Asiatic State like Japan. To-day he can ape the ways of the German and the Englishman, the American and the Frenchman, but he has no means of approach to the yellow Asiatic. Therefore he seeks to destroy the Japanese national State by using other national States as his instruments, so that he may rid himself of a dangerous opponent before he takes over supreme control of the last national State and transforms that control into a tyranny for the oppression of the defenceless.
He does not want to see a national Japanese State in existence when he founds his millennial empire of the future, and therefore he wants to destroy it before establishing his own dictatorship.
And so he is busy today in stirring up antipathy towards Japan among the other nations, as he stirred it up against Germany. Thus it may happen that while British statesmanship is still endeavouring to ground its policy in the alliance with Japan, the Jewish Press in Great Britain may be at the same time leading a hostile movement against that ally and preparing for a war of destruction by pretending that it is for the triumph of democracy and at the same time raising the war-cry: Down with Japanese militarism and imperialism.
Thus in England today the Jew opposes the policy of the State. And for this reason the struggle against the Jewish world-danger will one day begin also in that country.
And here again the National Socialist Movement has a tremendous task before it.
It must open the eyes of our people in regard to foreign nations and it must continually remind them of the real enemy who menaces the world today. In place of preaching hatred against Aryans from whom we may be separated on almost every other ground but with whom the bond of kindred blood and the main features of a common civilization unite us, we must devote ourselves to arousing general indignation against the maleficent enemy of humanity and the real author of all our sufferings.
The National Socialist Movement must see to it that at least in our own country the mortal enemy is recognized and that the fight against him may be a beacon light pointing to a new and better period for other nations as well as showing the way of salvation for Aryan humanity in the struggle for its existence.
Finally, may reason be our guide and will-power our strength. And may the sacred duty of directing our conduct as I have pointed out give us perseverance and tenacity; and may our faith be our supreme protection.

----------

[Previous Chapter (The Trade-Union Question)] [Home] [Next Chapter (Eastern Orientation or Eastern Policy)]


There are two reasons which induce me to submit to a special
examination the relation of Germany to Russia:



 Here perhaps we are dealing with the most decisive concern
of all German foreign affairs; and

 This question is also the touchstone for the political capacity of the young National Socialist movements to think clearly and to act correctly.

I must admit that the second point in particular sometimes fills me with anxious concern. Since our young movement does not obtain membership
material from the camp of the indifferent, but chiefly from very extreme
outlooks, it is only too natural if these people, in the field of understanding foreign affairs as in other fields, are burdened with the preconceived ideas or feeble understanding of the circles to which they previously belonged, both politically and philosophically. And this by no means applies only to the man who comes to us from the Left. On the contrary. Harmful as his previous instruction with regard to such problems might be, in part at least it was not infrequently balanced by an existing remnant of natural and healthy instinct. Then it was only necessary to substitute a better attitude for the influence that was previously forced upon him, and often the essentially healthy instinct and impulse of self-preservation that still survived in him could be regarded as our best ally.It is much harder, on the other hand, to induce dear political
thinking in a man whose previous education in this field was no less devoid
of any reason and logic, but on top of all this had also sacrified his last
remnant of natural instinct on the altar of objectivity. Precisely the members
of our so-called intelligentsia are the hardest to move to a really clear
and logical defense of their interests and the interests of their nation.
They are not only burdened with a dead weight of the most senseless conceptions
and prejudices, but what makes matters completely intolerable is that they
have lost and abandoned all healthy instinct of self-preservation. The National
Socialist movement is compelled to endure hard struggles with these people,
hard because, despite total incompetence, they often unfortunately are afflicted
with an amazing conceit, which causes them to look down without the slightest
inner justification upon other people, for the most part healthier than
they. Supercilious, arrogant knowit-alls, without any capacity for cool
testing and weighing, which, in turn, must be recognized as the pre-condition
for any will and action in the field of foreign affairs.Since these very circles are beginning today to divert the tendency
of our foreign policy in the most catastrophic way from any real defense
of the folkish interests of our people, placing it instead in the service
of their fantastic ideology, I feel it incumbent upon me to discuss for
my supporters the most important question in the field of foreign affairs,
our relation to Russia, in particular, and as thoroughly as is necessary
for the general understanding and possible in the scope of such a workBut first I would like to make the following introductory remarks:If under foreign policy we must understand the regulation of
a nation's relations with the rest of the world, the manner of this regulation
will be determined by certain definite facts. As National Socialists we
can, furthermore, establish the following principle concerning the nature
of the foreign policy of a folkish state:The foreign policy of the fokish state must safeguard the existence
on this planet of the race embodied in the state, by creating a healthy,
viable natural relation between the nation's population and growth on the
one hand and the quantity and quality of its soil on the other hand.As a healthy relation we may regard only that condition which
assures the sustenance of a people on its own soil. Every other condition,
even if it endures for hundreds, nay, thousands of years, is nevertheless
unhealthy and will sooner or later lead to the injury if not annihilation
of the people in question.Only an adequately large space on this earth assures a nation
of freedom of existence. Moreover, the necessary size of the territory to be settled
cannot be judged exclusively on the basis of present requirements, not even
in fact on the basis of the yield of the soil compared to the population.
For, as I explained in the first volume, under 'German Alliance Policy Before
the War,' in addition to its importance as a direct source of a people's
food, another significance, that is, a military and political one, must
be attributed to the area of a state. If a nation's sustenance as such is
assured by the amount of its soil, the safeguarding of the existing soil
itself must also be borne in mind. This lies in the general power-political
strength of the state, which in turn to no small extent is determined by
geo-military considerations.Hence, the German nation can defend its future only as a world
power. For more than two thousand years the defense of our people's interests,
as we should designate our more or less fortunate activity in the field
of foreign affairs, was world history. We ourselves were witnesses to this
fact: for the gigantic struggle of the nations in the years 1914-1918 was
only the struggle of the German people for its existence on the globe, but
we designated the type of event itself as a World War.The German people entered this struggle as a supposed world
power. I say here 'supposed,' for in reality it was none. If the German
nation in 1914 had had a different relation between area and population,
Germany would really have been a world power, and the War, aside from all
other factors, could have been terminated favorably.Germany today is no world power. Even if our momentary military
impotence were overcome, we should no longer have any claim to this title.
What can a formation, as miserable in its relation of population to area
as the German Reich today, mean on this planet? In an era when the earth
is gradually being divided up among states, some of which embrace almost
entire continents, we cannot speak of a world power in connection with a
formation whose political mother country is limited to the absurd area of
five hundred thousand square kilometers.From the purely territorial point of view, the area of the German
Reich vanishes completely as compared with that of the socalled world powers.
Let no one cite England as a proof to the contrary, for England in reality
is merely the great capital of the British world empire which calls nearly
a quarter of the earth's surface its own. In addition, we must regard as
giant states, first of all the American Union, then Russia and China. All
are spatial formations having in part an area more than ten times greater
than the present German Reich. And even France must be counted among these
states. Not only that she complements her army to an ever-increasing degree
from her enormous empire's reservoir of colored humanity, but racially as
well, she is making such great progress in negrification that we can actually
speak of an African state arising on European soil. The colonial policy
of present-day France cannot be compared with that of Germany in the past.
If the development of France in the present style were to be continued for
three hundred years, the last remnants of Frankish blood would be submerged
in the developing European-African mulatto state. An immense self-contained
area of settlement from the Rhine to the Congo, filled with a lower race
gradually produced from continuous bastardization.This distinguishes French colonial policy from the old German
one.The former German colonial policy, like everything we did, was
carried out by halves. It neither increased the settlement area of the German
Reich, nor did it undertake any attempt- criminal though it would have been-to
strengthen the Reich by the use of black blood. The Askaris in German East
Africa were a short, hesitant step in this direction. Actually they served
only for the defense of the colonies themselves. The idea of bringing black
troops into a European battlefield, quite aside from its practical impossibility
in the World War, never existed even as a design to be realized under more
favorable circumstances, while, on the contrary, it was always regarded
and felt by the French as the basic reason for their colonial activity.Thus, in the world today we see a number of power states, some
of which not only far surpass the strength of our German nation in population,
but whose area above all is the chief support of their political power.
Never has the relation of the German Reich to other existing world states
been as unfavorable as at the beginning of our history two thousand years
ago and again today. Then we were a young people, rushing headlong into
a world of great crumbling state formations, whose last giant, Rome, we
ourselves helped to fell. Today we find ourselves in a world of great power
states in process of formation, with our own Reich sinking more and more
into insignificance.We must bear this bitter truth coolly and soberly in mind. We
must follow and compare the German Reich through the centuries in its relation
to other states with regard to population and area. I know that everyone
will then come to the dismayed conclusion which I have stated at the beginning
of this discussion: Germany is no longer a world power, regardless whether
she is strong or weak from the military point of view.We have lost all proportion to the other great states of the
earth, and this thanks only to the positively catastrophic leadership of
our nation in the field of foreign affairs, thanks to our total failure
to be guided by what I should almost call a testamentary aim in foreign
policy, and thanks to the loss of any healthy instinct and impulse of self-preservation.If the National Socialist movement really wants to be consecrated
by history with a great mission for our nation, it must be permeated by
knowledge and filled with pain at our true situation in this world; boldly
and conscious of its goal, it must take up the struggle against the aimlesmess
and incompetence which have hitherto guided our German nation in the line
of foreign affairs. Then, without consideration of 'traditions' and prejudices,
it must find the courage to gather our people and their strength for an
advance along the road that will lead this people from its present restricted
living space to new land and soil, and hence also free it from the danger
of vanishing frotn the earth or of serving others as a slave nation.The National Socialist movement must strive to eliminate the
disproportion between our population and our area-viewing this latter as
a source of food as well as a basis for power politics-between our historical
past and the hopelessness of our present impotence. And in this it must
remain aware that we, as guardians of the highest humanity on this earth,
are bound by the highest obligation, and the more it strives to bring the
German people to racial awareness so that, in addition to breeding dogs,
horses, and cats, they will have mercy on their own blood, the more it will
be able to meet this obligation.If I characterize German policy up to now as aimless and
incompetent, the proof of my assertion lies in the actual failure of this
policy. If our people had been intellectually inferior or cowardly, the
results of its struggle on the earth could not be worse than what we see
before us today. Neither must the development of the last decades before
the War deceive us on this score; for we cannot measure the strength of
an empire by itself, but only by comparison with other states. And just
such a comparison furnishes proof that the increase in strength of the other
states was not only more even, but also greater in its ultimate effect;
that consequently, despite its apparent rise, Germany's road actually diverged
more and more from that of the other states and fell far behind; in short,
the difference in magnitudes increased to our disfavor. Yes, as time went
on, we fell behind more and more even in population. But since our people
is certainly excelled by none on earth in heroism, in fact, all in all has
certainly given the most blood of all the nations on earth for the preservation
of its existence, the failure can reside only in the mistaken way in which
it was given.If we examine the political experiences of our people for more
than a thousand years in this connection, passing all the innumerable wars
and struggles in review and examining the present end result they created,
we shall be forced to admit that this sea of blood has given rise to only
three phenomena which we are justified in claiming as enduring fruits of
clearly defined actions in the field of foreign and general politics:(1) The colonization of the Ostmark, carried out mostly by Bavarians;(2) the acquisition and penetration of the territory east of
the Elbe; and(3) the organization by the Hohenzollerns of the Brandenburg-Prussian
state as a model and nucleus for crystallization of a new Reich.An instructive warning for the future!The first two great successes of our foreign policy have remained
the most enduring. Without them our nation today would no longer have any
importance at all. They were the first, but unfortunately the only successful
attempt to bring the rising population into harmony with the quantity of
our soil. And it must be regarded as truly catastrophic that our German
historians have never been able to estimate correctly these two achievements
which are by far the greatest and most significant for the future, but by
contrast have glorified everything conceivable, praised and admired fantastic
heroism, innumerable adventurous wars and struggles, instead of finally
recognizing how unimportant most of these events have been for the nation's
great line of development.
The third great success of our political activity lies in the formation
of the Prussian state and the resultant cultivation of a special state idea,
as also of the German army's instinct of selfpreservation and self-defense,
adapted to the modern world and put into organized form. The development
of the idea of individual militancy into the duty of national militancy
[conscription] has grown out of every state formation and every state conception.
The significance of this development cannot be overestimated. Through the
discipline of the Prussian army organism, the German people, shot through
with hyperindividualism by their racial divisions, won back at least a part
of the capacity for organization which they had long since lost. What other
peoples still primitively possess in their herd community instinct, we,
partially at least, regained artificially for our national community through
the process of military training. Hence the elimination of universal conscription-
which for dozens of other peoples might be a matter of no importance-is
for us fraught with the gravest consequences. Ten German generations without
corrective and educational military training, left to the evil effects of
their racial and hence philosophical division-and our nation would really
have lost the last remnant of an independent existence on this planet. Only
through individual men, in the bosom of foreign nations, could the German
spirit make its contribution to culture, and its origin would not even be
recognized. Cultural fertilizer, until the last remnant of Aryan-Nordic
blood in us would be corrupted or extinguished.It is noteworthy that the significance of these real political
successes won by our nation in its struggles, enduring more than a thousand
years, were far better understood and appreciated by our adversaries than
by ourselves. Even today we still rave about a heroism which robbed our
people of millions of its noblest blood-bearers, but in its ultimate result
remained totally fruitless.The distinction between the real political successes of our
people and the national blood spent for fruitless aims is of the greatest
importance for our conduct in the present and the future.We National Socialists must never under any circumstances join
in the foul hurrah patriotism of our present bourgeois world. In particular
it is mortally dangerous to regard the last pre-War developments as binding
even in the slightest degree for our own course. From the whole historical
development of the nineteenth century, not a single obligation can be derived
which was grounded in this period itself. In contrast to the conduct of
the representatives of this period, we must again profess the highest aim
of all foreign policy, to wit: to bring the soil into harmony with the population
Yes, from the past we can only learn that, in setting an objective for our
political activity, we must proceed in two directions: Land and soil as
the goal of ourforeign policy, and a new philosophically established, uniform
foundation as the aim of political activity at home.I still wish briefly to take a position on the question as
to what extent the demand for soil and territory seems ethically and morally
justified. This is necessary, since unfortunately, even in socalled folkish
circles, all sorts of unctuous bigmouths step forward, endeavoring to set
the rectification of the injustice of 1918 as the aim of the German nation's
endeavors in the field of foreign affairs, but at the same time find it
necessary to assure the whole world of folkish brotherhood and sympathy.I should like to make the following preliminary remarks: The
demand for restoration of the frontiers of 1914 is a political absurdity
of ssxch proportions and consegsxences as to make it seem a crime. Quite
aside from the fact that the Reich's frontiers in 19X4 were anything but
logical. For in reality they were neither complete in the sense of embracing
the people of German nationality, nor sensible with regard to geomilitary
expediency. They were not the result of a considered political action, but
momentary frontiers in a political struggle that was by no means concluded;
partly, in fact, they were the results of chance. With equal right and in
many cases with more right, some other sample year of German history could
be picked out, and the restoration of the conditions at that time declared
to be the aim of an activity in foreign affairs. The above demand is entirely
suited to our bourgeois society, which here as elsewhere does not possess
a single creative political idea for the future, but lives only in the past,
in fact, in the most immediate past; for even their backward gaze does not
extend beyond their own times. The law of inertia binds them to a given
situation and causes them to resist any change in it, but without ever increasing
the activity of this opposition beyond the mere power of perseverance. So
it is obvious that the political horizon of these people does not extend
beyond the year 1914. By proclaiming the restoration of those borders as
the political aim of their activity, they keep mending the crumbling league
of our adversaries. Only in this way can it be explained that eight years
after a world struggle in which states, some of which had the most heterogeneous
desires, took part, the coalition of the victors of those days can still
maintain itself in a more or less unbroken form.All these states were at one time beneficiaries of the German
collapse. Fear of our strength caused the greed and envy of the individual
great powers among themselves to recede. By grabbing as much of the Reich
as they could, they found the best guard against a future uprising. A bad
conscience and fear of our people's strength is still the most enduring
cement to hold together the various members of this alliance.
And we do not disappoint them. By setting up the restoration of the borders
of 1914 as a political program for Germany, our bourgeoisie frighten away
every pa rtner who might desire to leave the league of our enemies, since
he must inevitably fear to be attacked singly and thereby lose the protection
of his individual fellow allies. Each single state feels concerned and threatened
by this slogan.Moreover, it is senseless in two respects:(1) because the instruments of power are lacking to remove it
from the vapors of club evenings into reality; and(2) because, if it could actually be realized, the outcome would
again be so pitiful that, by God, it would not be worth while to risk the
blood of our people for this.For it should scarcely seem questionable to anyone that ever
the restoration of the frontiers of 1914 could be achieved only by blood.
Only childish and naive minds can lull themselves in the idea that they
can bring about a correction of Versailles by wheedling and begging. Quite
aside from the fact that such an attempt would presuppose a man of Talleyrand's
talents, which we do not possess. One half of our political figures consist
of extremely sly, but equally spineless elements which are hostile toward
our nation to begin with, while the other is composed of goodnatured, harmless,
and easy-going soft-heads. Moreover, the times have changed since the Congress
of Vienna: Today it is not princes and princes' mistresses who haggle and
bargain over state borders; it is the inexorable Jew who struggles for his
domination over the nations. No nation can remove this hand from its throat
except by the sword. Only the assembled and concentrated might of a national
passion rearing up in its strength can defy the international enslavement
of peoples. Such a process is and remains a bloody one.If, however, we harbor the conviction that the German future,
regardless what happens, demands the supreme sacrifice, quite aside from
all considerations of political expediency as such, we must set up an aim
worthy of this sacrifice and fight for it.The boundaries of the year 1914 mean nothing at all for the
German future. Neither did they provide a defense of the past, nor would
they contain any strength for the future. Through them the German nation
will neither achieve its inner integrity, nor will its sustenance be safeguarded
by them, nor do these boundaries, viewed from the military standpoint, seem
expedient or even satisfactory, nor finally can they improve the relation
in which we at present find ourselves toward the other world powers, or,
better expressed, the real world powers. The lag behind England will not
be caught up, the magnitude of the Union will not be achieved; not even
France would experience a material diminution of her world-political importance.Only one thing would be certain: even with a favorable outcome,
such an attempt to restore the borders of 1914 would lead to a further bleeding
of our national body, so much so that there would be no worth-while blood
left to stake for the decisions and actions really to secure the nation's
future. On the contrary, drunk with such a shallow success, we should renounce
any further goals, all the more readily as 'national honor' would be repaired
and, for the moment at least, a few doors would have been reopened to commercial
development.As opposed to this, we National Socialists must hold unflinchingly
to our aim in foreign policy, namely, to secure for the German people the
land and soil to which they are entitled on this earth. And this action
is the only one which, before God and our German posterity, would make any
sacrifice of blood seem justified: before God, since we have been put on
this earth with the mission of eternal struggle for our daily bread, beings
who receive nothing as a gift, and who owe their position as lords of the
earth only to the genius and the courage with which they can conquer and
defend it; and before our German posterity in so far as we have shed no
citizen's blood out of which a thousand others are not bequeathed to posterity.
The soil on which some day German generations of peasants can beget powerful
sons will sanction the investment of the sons of today, and will some day
acquit the responsible statesmen of blood-guilt and sacrifice of the people,
even if they are persecuted by their contemporaries.And I must sharply attack those folkish pen-pushers who claim
to regard such an acquisition of soil as a 'breach of sacred human rights'
and attack it as such in their scribblings. One never knows who stands behind
these fellows. But one thing is certain, that the confusion they can create
is desirable and convenient to our national enemies. By such an attitude
they help to weaken and destroy from within our people's will for the only
correct way of defending their vital needs. For no people on this earth
possesses so much as a square yard of territory on the strength of a higher
will or superior right. Just as Germany's frontiers are fortuitous frontiers,
momentary frontiers in the current political struggle of any period, so
are the boundaries of other nations' living space. And just as the shape
of our earth's Furnace can seem immutable as granite only to the thoughtless
soft-head, but in reality only represents at each period an apparent pause
in a continuous development, created by the mighty forces of Nature in a
process of continuous growth, only to be transformed or destroyed tomorrow
by greater forces, likewise the boundaries of living spaces in the life
of nations.State boundaries are made by man and changed by man.The fact that a nation has succeeded in acquiring an undue amount
of soil constitutes no higher obligation that it should be recognized eternally.
At most it proves the strength of the conquerors and the weakness of the
nations. And in this case, right lies in this strength alone. If the German
nation today, penned into an impossible area, faces a lamentable future,
this is no more a commandment of Fate than revolt against this state of
affairs constitutes an affront to Fate. No more than any higher power has
promised another nation more territory than the Gerrnan nation, or is offended
by the fact of this unjust distribution of the soil. Just as our ancestors
did not receive the soil on which we live today as a gift from Heaven, but
had to fight for it at the risk of their lives, in the future no folkish
grace will win soil for us and hence life for our people, but only the might
of a victorious sword.Much as all of us today recognize the necessity of a reckoning
with France, it would remain ineffectual in the long run if it represented
the whole of our aim in foreign policy. It can and will achieve meaning
only if it offers the rear cover for an enlargement of our people's living
space in Europe. For it is not in colonial acquisitions that we must see
the solution of this problem, but exclusively in the acquisition of a territory
for settlement, which will enhance the area of the mother country, and hence
not only keep the new settlers in the most intimate community with the land
of their origin, but secure for the total area those advantages which lie
in its unified magnitude.The folkish movement must not be the champion of other peoples,
but the vanguard fighter of its own. Otherwise it is superfluous and above
all has no right to sulk about the past. For in that case it is behaving
in exactly tbe same wav. The old German policy was wrongly determined by
dynastic considerations, and the future policy must not be directed by cosmopolitan
folkish drivel. In particular, we are not constables guarding the well-known
'poor little nations,' but soldiers of our own nation.But we National Socialists must go further. The right to possess
soil can become a duty if without extension of its soil a great nation seems
doomed to destruction. And most especially when not some little negro nation
or other is involved, but the Germanic mother of life, which has given the
present-day world its cultural picture. Germany will either be a world power
or there will be no Germany. And for world power she needs that magnitude
which will give her the position she needs in the present period, and life
to her citizens.And so we National Socialists consciously draw a line beneath
the foreign policy tendency of our pre-War period. We take up where we broke
off six hundred years ago. We stop the endless German movement to the south
and west, and turn our gaze toward the land in the east. At long last we
break of the colonial and commercial policy of the pre-War period and shift
to the soil policy of the future.If we speak of soil in Europe today, we can primarily have in
mind only Russia and her vassal border states.Here Fate itself seems desirous of giving us a sign. By handing
P ussia to Bolshevism, it robbed the Russian nation of that intelligentsia
which previously brought about and guaranteed its existence as a state.
For the organization of a Russian state formation was not the result of
the political abilities of the Slavs in Russia, but only a wonderful example
of the state-forming efficacity of the German element in an inferior race.
Numerous mighty empires on earth have been created in this way. Lower nations
led by Germanic organizers and overlords have more than once grown to be
mighty state formations and have endured as long as the racial nudeus of
the creative state race maintained itself. For centuries Russia drew nourishment
from this Germanic nucleus of its upper leading strata. Today it can be
regarded as almost totally exterminated and extinguished. It has been replaced
by the Jew. Impossible as it is for the Russian by himself to shake off
the yoke of the Jew by his own resources, it is equally impossible for the
Jew to maintain the mighty empire forever. He himself is no element of organization,
but a ferment of decomposition. The Persian I empire in the east is ripe
for collapse. And the end of Jewish rule in Russia will also be the end
of Russia as a state. We have been chosen by Fate as witnesses of a catastrophe
which will be the mightiest confirmation of the soundness of the folkish
theory.Our task, the mission of the National Socialist movement, is
to bring our own people to such political insight that they will not see
their goal for the future in the breath-taking sensation of a new Alexander's
conquest, but in the industrious work of the German plow, to which the sword
need only give soil.It goes without saying that the Jews announce the sharpest
resistance to such a policy. Better than anyone else they sense the significance
of this action for their own future. This very fact should teach all really
national-minded men the correctness of such a reorientation. Unfortunately,
the opposite is the case. Not only in German-National, but even in 'folkish'
circles, the idea of such an eastern policy is violently attacked, and,
as almost always in such matters, they appeal to a higher authority. The
spirit of Bismarck is cited to cover a policy which is as senseless as it
is impossible and in the highest degree harmful to the German nation. Bismarck
in his time, they say, always set store on good relations with Russia. This,
to a certain extent, is true. But they forget to mention that he set just
as great store on good relations with Italy, for example; in fact, that
the same Herr von Bismarck once made an alliance with Italy in order to
finish off Austria the more easily. Why, then, don't they continue this
policy? 'Because the Italy of today is not the Italy of those days,' they
will say. Very well. But then, honored sirs, will you permit the objection
that present-day Russia is not the Russia of those days either? It never
entered Bismarck's head to lay down a political course tactically and theoretically
for all time. In this respect he was too much master of the moment to tie
his hands in such a way. The question, therefore, most not be: What did
Bismarsk do in his time? But rather: What would he do today? And this question
is easier to answer. With his political astuteness, he would never ally
himself unth a state that is downed to destruction.Furthermore, Bismarck even then viewed the German colonial and
commercial policy with mixed feelings, since for the moment he was concerned
only with the surest method of internally consolidating the state formation
he had created. And this was the only reason why at that time he welcomed
the Russian rear cover, which gave him a free hand in the west. But what
was profitable to Germany then would be detrimental today.As early as 1920- 21, when the young National Socialist movement
began slowly to rise above the political horizon, and here and there was
referred to as the movement for German freedom, the party was approached
by various quarters with an attempt to create a certain bond between it
and the movements for freedom in other countries. This was in the line of
the ' League of Oppressed Nations,' propagated by many. Chiefly involved
were representatives of various Balkan states, and some from Egypt and India,
who as individuals always impressed me as pompous big-mouths without any
realistic background. But there were not a few Germans, especially in the
nationalist camp, who let themselves be dazzled by such inflated Orientals
and readily accepted any old Indian or Egyptian student from God knows where
as a 'representative' of India or Egypt. These people never realized that
they were usually dealing with persons who had absolutely nothing behind
them, and above all were authorized by no one to conclude any pact with
anyone, so that the practical result of any relations with such elements
was nil, unless the time wasted were booked as a special loss. I always
resisted such attempts. Not only that I had better things to do than twiddle
away weeks in fruitless 'conferences,' but even if these men had been authorized
representatives of such nations, I regarded the whole business as useless,
in fact, harmful.Even in peacetime it was bad enough that the German alliance
policy, for want of any aggressive intentions of our own, ended in a defensive
union of ancient states, pensioned by world history. The alliance with Austria
as well as Turkey had little to be said for them. While the greatest military
and industrial states on earth banded into an active aggressive union, we
collected a few antique, impotent state formations and with this decaying
rubbish attempted to face an active world coalition. Germany received a
bitter accounting for this error in foreign policy. But this accounting
does not seem to have been bitter enough to prevent our eternal dreamers
from falling headlong into the same error. For the attempt to disarm the
almighty victors through a 'league of Oppressed Nations' is not only ridiculous,
but catastrophic as well. It is catastrophic because it distracts our people
again and again from the practical possibilities, making them devote themselves
to imaginative, yet fruitless hopes and illusions. The German of today really
resembles the drowning man who grasps at every straw. And this can apply
even to men who are otherwise exceedingly well educated. If any will-o'-the-wisp
of hope, however unreal, turns up anywhere, these men are off at a trot,
chasing after the phantom. Whether it is a League of Oppressed Nations,
a League of Nations, or any other fantastic new invention, it will be sure
to find thousands of credulous souls.I still remember the hopes, as childish as they were incomprehensible,
which suddenly arose in folkish circles in 1920-21, to the effect that British
power was on the verge of collapse in India. Some Asiatic jugglers, for
all I care they may have been real 'fighters for Indian freedom,' who at
that time were wandering around Europe, had managed to sell otherwise perfectly
reasonable people the idee fixe that the British Empire, which has its pivot
in India, was on the verge of collapse at that very point. Of course, it
never entered their heads that here again their own wish was the sole father
of all their thoughts. No more did the inconsistency of their own hopes.
For by expecting the end of the British Empire to follow from a collapse
of British rule in India, they themselves admitted that India was of the
most paramount importance to England.It is most likely, however, that this vitally important question
is not a profound secret known only to German-folkish prophets; presumably
it is known also to the helmsmen of English destiny. It is really childish
to suppose that the men in England cannot correctly estimate the importance
of the Indian Empire for the British world union. And if anyone imagines
that England would let India go without staking her last drop of blood,
it is only a sorry sign of absolute failure to learn from the World War,
and of total misapprehension and ignorance on the score of AngloSaxon determination.
It is, furthermore, a proof of the German's total ignorance regarding the
whole method of British penetration and administration of this empire. England
will lose India either if her own administrative machinery falls a prey
to racial decomposition (which at the moment is completely out of the question
in India) or if she is bested by the sword of a powerful enemy. Indian agitators,
however, will never achieve this. How hard it is to best England, we Germans
have sufficiently learned. Quite aside from the fact that I, as a man of
Germanic blood, would, in spite of everything, rather see India under English
rule than under any other.Just as lamentable are the hopes in any mythical uprising in
Egypt. The 'Goly War' can give our German Schafkopf players the pleasant
thrill of thinking that now perhaps others are ready to shed their blood
for us-for this cowardly speculation, to tell the truth, has always been
the silent father of all hopes; in reality
it would come to an infernal end under the fire of English machinegun companies
and the hail of fragmentation bombs.It just happens to be impossible to overwhelm with a coalition
of cripples a powerful state that is determined to stake, if necessary,
its last drop of blood for its existence. As a folkish man, who appraises
the value of men on a racial basis, I am prevented by mere knowledge of
the racial inferiority of these so-called 'oppressed nations' from linking
the destiny of my own people with theirs.And today we must take exactly the same position toward Russia.
Present-day Russia, divested of her Germanic upper stratum, is, quite aside
from the private intentions of her new masters, no ally for the German nation's
fight for freedom. Considered frown the purely military angle, the relations
would be simply catastrophic in case of war between Germany and Russia and
Western Europe, and probably against all the rest of the world. The struggle
would take place, not on Russian, but on German soil, and Germany would
not be able to obtain the least effective support from Russia. The present
German Reich's instruments of power are so lamentable and so useless for
a foreign war, that no defense of our borders against Western Europe, including
England, would be practicable, and particularly the German industrial region
would lie defenselessly exposed to the concentrated aggressive arms of our
foes. There is the additional fact that between Germany and Russia there
lies the Polish state, completely in French hands. In case of a war between
Germany and Russia and Western Europe, Russia would first have to subdue
Poland before the first soldier could be sent to the western front. Yet
it is not so much a question of soldiers as of technical armament. In this
respect, the World War situation would repeat itself, only much more horribly.
Just as German industry was then drained for our glorious allies, and, technically
speaking, Germany had to fight the war almost single-handed, likewise in
this struggle Russia would be entirely out of the picture as a technical
factor. We could oppose practically nothing to the general motorization
of the worth which in the next war will manifest itself overwhelmingly and
decisively. For not only that Germany herself has remained shamefully backward
in this all-important field, but from the little she possesses she would
have to sustain Russia, which even today cannot claim possession of a single
factory capable of producing a motor vehicle that really runs. Thus, such
a war would assume the character of a plain massacre. Germany's youth would
be bled even more than the last time, for as always the burden of the fighting
would rest only upon us, and the result would be inevitable defeat.But even supposing that a miracle should occur and that such
a struggle did not end with the total annihilation of Germany, the ultimate
outcome would only be that the German nation, bled white, would remain as
before bounded by great military states and that her real situation would
hence have changed in no way.Let no one argue that in concluding an alliance with Russia
we need not immediately think of war, or, if we did, that we could thoroughly
prepare for it. An alliance whose aim does not embrace a plan for war is
senseless and worthless. Alliances are concluded only for struggle. And
even if the clash should be never so far away at the moment when the pact
is concluded, the prospect of a military involvement is nevertheless its
cause. And do not imagine that any power would ever interpret the meaning
of such an alliance in any other way. Either a German-Russian coalition
would remain on paper, or from the letter of the treaty it would be translated
into visible reality-and the rest of the world would be warned. How nalve
to suppose that in such a case England and France would wait a decade for
the German-Russian alliance to complete its technical preparations. No,
the storm would break over Germany with the speed of lightning.And so the very fact of the conclusion of an alliance with Russia
embodies a plan for the next war. Its outcome would be the end of Germany.On top of this there is the following:1. The present rulers of Russia have no idea of honorably entering
into an alliance, let alone observing one.Never forget that the rulers of present-day Russia are common
blood-stained criminals; that they are the scum of humanity which, favored
by circumstances, overran a great state in a tragic hour, slaughtered and
wiped out thousands of her leading ir.telligentsia in wild blood lust, and
now for almost ten years have been carrying on the most cruel and tyrannical
regime of all time. Furthermore, do not forget that these rulers belong
to a race which combines, in a rare mixture, bestial cruelty and an inconceivable
gift for lying, and which today more than ever is conscious of a mission
to impose its bloody oppression on the whole world. Do not forget that the
international Jew who completely dominates Russia today regards Germany,
not as an ally, but as a state destined to the same fate. And you do not
make pacts with anyone whose sole interest is the destruction of his partner.
Above all, you do not make them with elements to whom no pact would be sacred,
since they do not live in this world as representatives of honor and sincerity,
but as champions of deceit, lies, theft, plunder, and rapine. If a man believes
that he can enter into profitable connections with parasites, he is like
a tree trying to conclude for its own profit an agreement with a mistletoe.2. The danger to which Russia succumbed is always present for
Germany. Only a bourgeois simpleton is capable of imagining that Bolshevism
has been exorcised. With his superficial thinking he has no idea that this
is an instinctive process; that is, the striving of the Jewish people for
world domination, a process which is just as natural as the urge of the
Anglo-Saxon to seize domination of the earth. And just as the Anglo-Saxon
pursues this course in his own way and carries on the fight with his own
weapons, likewise the Jew. He goes his way, the way of sneaking in among
the nations and boring from within, and he fights with his weapons, with
lies and slander, poison and corruption, intensifying the struggle to the
point of bloodily exterminating his hated foes. In Russian Bolshevism we
must see the attempt undertaken by the Jews in the twentieth century to
achieve world domination. Just as in other epochs they strove to reach the
same goal by other, though inwardly related processes. Their endeavor lies
profoundly rooted in their essential nature. No more than another nation
renounces of its own accord the pursuit of its impulse for the expansion
of its power and way of life, but is compelled by outward circumstances
or else succumbs to impotence due to the symptoms of old age, does the Jew
break off his road to world dictatorship out of voluntary renunciation,
or because he represses his eternal urge. He, too, will either be thrown
back in his course by forces lying outside himself, or all his striving
for world domination will be ended by his own dying out. But the impotence
of nations, their own death from old age, arises from the abandonment of
their blood purity. And this is a thing that the Jew preserves better than
any other people on earth. And so he advances on his fatal road until another
force comes forth to oppose him, and in a mighty struggle hurls the heaven-stormer
back to Lucifer.Germany is today the next great war aim of Bolshevism. It requires
all the force of a young missionary idea to raise our people up again, to
free them from the snares of this international serpent, and to stop the
inner contamination of our blood, in order that the forces of the nation
thus set free can be thrown in to safeguard our nationality, and thus can
prevent a repetition of the recent catastrophes down to the most distant
future. If we pursue this aim, it is sheer lunacy to ally ourselves with
a power whose master is the mortal enemy of our future. How can we expect
to free our own people from the fetters of this poisonous embrace if we
walk right into it? How shall we explain Bolshevism to the German worker
as an accursed crime against humanity if we ally ourselves with the organizations
of this spawn of hell, thus recognizing it in the larger sense? By what
right shall we condemn a member of the broad masses for his sympathy with
an outlook if the very leaders of the state choose the representatives of
this outlook for allies?The fight against Jewish world Bolshevization requires a clear
attitude toward Soviet Russia. thou cannot drive out the Devil with Beelsebub.If today even folkish circles rave about an alliance with Russia,
they should just look around them in Germany and see whose support they
find in their efforts. Or have folkish men lately begun to view an activity
as beneficial to the German people which is recommended and promoted by
the international Marxist press? Since when do folkish men fight with armor
held out to them by a Jewish squire?There is one main charge that could be raised against the old
German Reich with regard to its alliance policy: not, however, that it failed
to maintain good relations with Russia, but only that it ruined its relations
with everyone by continuous shilly-shallying, in the pathological weakness
of trying to preserve world peace at any price.
I openly confess that even in the pre-War period I would have thought it
sounder if Germany, renouncing her senseless colonial policy and renouncing
her merchant marine and war fleet, had concluded an alliance with England
against Russia, thus passing from a feeble global policy to a determined
European policy of territorial acquisition on the continent.I have not forgotten the insolent threat which the pan-Slavic
Russia of that time dared to address to Germany; I have not forgotten the
constant practice mobilizations, whose sole purpose was an affront to Germany;
I cannot forget the mood of public opinion in Russia, which outdid itself
in hateful outbursts against our people and our Reich; I cannot forget the
big Russian newspapers, which were always more enthusiastic about France
than about us.But in spite of all that, before the War there would still have
been a second way: we could have propped ourselves on Russia and turned
against England.Today conditions are different. If before the War we could have
choked down every possible sentiment and gone with Russia, today it is no
longer possible. The hand of the world clock has moved forward since then,
and is loudly striking the hour in which the destiny of our nation must
be decided in one way or another. The process of consolidation in which
the great states of the earth are involved at the moment is for us the last
warning signal to stop and search our hearts, to lead our people out of
the dream world back to hard reality, and show them the way to the future
which alone will lead the old Reich to a new golden age.If the National Socialist movement frees itself from all illusions
with regard to this great and all-important task, and accepts reason as
its sole guide, the catastrophe of 1918 can some day become an infinite
blessing for the future of our nation. Out of this collapse our nation will
arrive at a complete reorientation of its activity in foreign relations,
and, furthermore, reinforced within by its new philosophy of life, will
also achieve outwardly a final stabilization of its foreign policy. Then
at last it will acquire what England possesses and even Russia possessed,
and what again and again induced France to make the same decisions, essentially
correct from the viewpoint of her own interests, to wit: A political testament.The political testament of the German nation to govern its outward
activity for all time should and must be:
Never suffer the rise of two continental powers in Europe. Regard any attempt
to organize a second military power on the German frontiers, even if only
in the form of creating a state capable of military strength, as an attack
on Germany, and in it see not only the right, but also the duty, to employ
all means up to armed force to prevent the rise of such a state, or, if
one has already arisen, to smash it again.-See to it that the strength of
our nation is founded, not on colonies, but on the soil of our European
homeland. Never regard the Reich as secure unless for centuries to come
it can give every scion of our people his own parcel of soil. Never forget
that the most sacred right on this earth is a man's right to have earth
to till with his own hands, and the most sacred sacrifice the blood that
a man sheds for this earth.I should not like to conclude these reflections without pointing
once again to the sole alliance possibility which exists for us at the moment
in Europe. In the previous chapter on the alliance problem I have already
designated England and Italy as the only two states in Europe with which
a closer relationship would be desirable and promising for us. Here I shall
briefly touch on the military importance of such an alliance.The military consequences of concluding this alliance would
in every respect be the opposite of the consequences of an alliance with
Russia. The most important consideration, first of all, is the fact that
in itself an approach so England and Italy in no way conjures up a war danger.
France, the sole power which could conceivably oppose the alliance, would
not be in a position to do so. And consequently the alliance would give
Germany the possibility of peacefully making those preparations for a reckoning
with France, vhich would have to be made in any event within the scope of
such a coalition. For the significant feature of such an alliance lies precisely
in the fact that upon its conclusion Germany would not suddenly be exposed
to a hostile invasion, but that the opposing alliance would break of its
own accord; the Entente, to which we owe such infinite misfortune, would
be dissolved, and hence France, the mortal enemy of our nation, would be
isolated. Even if this success is limited at first to moral effect, it would
suffice to give Germany freedom of movement to an extent which today is
scarcely conceivable. For the law of action would be in the hands of the
new European AngloXermanItalian alliance and no longer with France.The further result would be that at one stroke Germany would
be freed from her unfavorable strategic position. The most powerful protection
on our fiank on the one hand, complete guaranty of our food and raw materials
on the other, would be the beneficial effect of the new constellation of
states.But almost more important would be the fact that the new league
would embrace states which in technical productivity almost complement one
another in many respects. For the first time Germany would have allies who
would not drain our own economy like leeches, but could and would contribute
their share to the richest supplementation of our technical armament.And do not overlook the final fact that in both cases we should
be dealing with allies who cannot be compared with Turkey or present-day
Russia. The greatest world power on earth and a youthful national state
would offer different premises for a struggle in Europe than the putrid
state corpses with which Germany allied herself in the last war.Assuredly, as I emphasized in the last chapter, the difficulties
opposing such an alliance are great. But was the formation of the Entente,
for instance, any less difficult? What the genius of a Ring Edward VII achieved,
in part almost counter to natural interests, we, too, must and will achieve,
provided we are so inspired by our awareness of the necessity of such a
development that with astute self-control we determine our actions accordingly.
And this will become possible in the moment when, imbued with admonishing
distress,l we pursue, not the diplomatic aimlessness of the last decades,
but a conscious and determined course, and stick to it. Neither western
nor eastern orientation must be the future goal of our foreign policy, but
an eastern policy in the sense of acquiring the necessary soil for our German
people. Since for this we require strength, and since France, the mortal
enemy of our nation, inexorably strangles us and robs us of our strength,
we must take upon ourselves every sacrifice whose consequences are cakulated
to contribute to the annihilation of French efforts toward hegemony in Europe.
Today every power is our natural ally, which like us feels French domination
on the continent to be intolerable. No path to such a power can be too hard
for us, and no renunciation can seem unutterable if only the end result
of ers the possibility of downing our grimmest enemy. Then, if we can cauterize
and close the biggest wound, we can calmly leave the cure of our slighter
wounds to the soothing effects of time.Today, of course, we are subjected to the hateful yapping of
the enemies of our people within. We National Socialists must never let
this divert us from proclaiming what in our innermost conviction is absolutely
necessary. Today, it is true, we must brace ourselves against the current
of a public opinion confounded by Jewish guile exploiting German gullibility;
sometimes, it is true, the waves break harshly and angrily about us, but
he who swims with the stream is more easily overlooked than he who bucks
the waves. Today we are a reef; in a few years Fate may raise us up as a
dam against which the general stream will break, and flow into a new bed.
It is, therefore, necessary that the National Socialist movement be recognized
and established in the eyes of all as the champion of a definite political
purpose. Whatever Heaven may have in store for us, let men recognize us
by our very visor!Once we ourselves recognize the crying need which must determine
our conduct in foreign affairs, from this knowledge will flow the force
of perseverance which we sometimes need when, beneath the drumfire of our
hostile press hounds, one or another of us is seized with fear and there
creeps upon him a faint desire to grant a concession at least in some field,
and howl with the wolves, in order not to have everyone against him.


THE ARMISTICE of November, 1918, ushered in a policy which in
all human probability was bound to lead gradually to total submission. Historical
examples of a similar nature show that nations which lay down their arms
without compelling reasons prefer in the ensuing period to accept the greatest
humiliations and extortions rather than attempt to change their fate by
a renewed appeal to force.This is humanly understandable. A shrewd victor will, if possible,
always present his demands to the vanquished in installments. And then,
with a nation that has lost its character-and this is the case of every
one which voluntarily submits-he can be sure that it will not regard one
more of these individual oppressions as an adequate reason for taking up
arms again. 'The more extortions are willingly accepted in this way, the
more unjustified it strikes people finally to take up the defensive against
a new, apparently isolated, though constantly recurring, oppression, especially
when, all in all, so much more and greater misfortune has already been borne
in patient silence.The fall of Carthage is the most horrible picture of such a
slow execution of a people through its own deserts.That is why Clausewitz in his Drei Bekenntnisse incomparably
singles out this idea and nails it fast for all time, when he says:'That the stain of a cowardly submission can never be effaced;
that this drop of poison in the blood of a people is passed on to posterity
and will paralyze and undermine the strength of later generations'; that,
on the other hand, 'even the loss of this freedom after a bloody and honorable
struggle assures the rebirth of a people and is the seed of life from which
some day a new tree will strike fast roots.'Of course, a people that has lost all honor and character will
not concern itself with such teachings. For no one who takes them to heart
can sink so low; only he who forgets them, or no longer wants to know them,
collapses. Therefore, we must not expect those who embody a spineless submission
suddenly to look into their hearts and, on the basis of reason and all human
experience, begin to act differently than before. On the contrary, it is
these men in particular who will dismiss all such teachings until either
the nation is definitely accustomed to its yoke of slavery or until better
forces push to the surface, to wrest the power from the hands of the infamous
spoilers. In the first case these people usually do not feel so badly, since
not seldom they are appointed by the shrewd victors to the office of slave
overseer, which these spineless natures usually wield more mercilessly over
their people than any foreign beast put in by the enemy himself.The development since 1918 shows us that in Germany the hope
of winning the victor's favor by voluntary submission unfortunately determines
the political opinions and the actions of the broad masses in the most catastrophic
way. I attach special importance to emphasizing the broad masses, because
I cannot bring myself to profess the belief that the commissions and omissions
of our people's leaders are attributable to the same ruinous lunacy. As
the leadership of our destinies has, since the end of the War, been quite
openly furnished by Jews, we really cannot assume that faulty knowledge
alone is the cause of our misfortune; we must, on the contrary, hold the
conviction that conscious purpose is destroying our nation. And once we
examine the apparent madness of our nation's leadership in the field of
foreign affairs from this standpoint, it is revealed as the subtlest, ice-cold
logic, in the service of the Jewish idea and struggle for world conquest.
And thus, it becomes understandable that the same time-span, which from
1806 to 1813 sufficed to imbue a totally collapsed Prussia with new vital
energy and determination for struggle, today has not only elapsed unused,
but, on the contrary, has led to an ever-greater weakening of our state.Seven years after November, 1918, the Treaty of Locarno was
signed.The course of events was that indicated above: Once the disgraceful
armistice had been signed, neither the energy nor the courage could be summoned
suddenly to oppose resistance to our foes' repressive measures, which subsequently
were repeated over and over. Our enemies were too shrewd to demand too much
at once. They always limit their extortions to the amount which, in their
opinion-and that of the German leadership- would at the moment be bearable
enough so that an explosion of popular feeling need not be feared. But the
more of these individual dictates had been signed, the less justified it
seemed, because of a single additional extortion or exacted humiliation,
to do the thing that had not been done because of so many others: to offer
resistance. For this is the ' drop of poison ' of which Clausewitz speaks:
the spinelessness which once begun must increase more and more and which
gradually becomes the foulest heritage, burdening every future decision.
It can become a terrible lead weight, a weight which a nation is not likely
to shake off, but which finally drags it down into the existence of a slave
race.Thus, in Germany edicts of disarmament alternated with edicts
of enslavement, political emasculation with economic pillage, and finally
created that moral spirit which can regard the Dawes Plan as a stroke of
good fortune and the Treaty of Locarno as a success. Viewing all this from
a higher vantagepoint, we can speak of one single piece of good fortune
in all this misery, which is that, though men can be befuddled, the heavens
cannot be bribed. For their blessing remained absent: since then hardship
and care have been the constant companions-of our people, and our one faithful
ally has been misery. Destiny made no exception in this case, but gave us
what we deserved. Since we no longer know how to value honor, it teaches
us at least to appreciate freedom in the matter of bread. By now people
have learned to cry out for bread, but one of these days they will pray
for freedom.Bitter as was the collapse of our nation in the years after
1918, and obvious at that very time, every man who dared prophesy even then
what later always materialized was violently and resolutely persecuted.
Wretched and bad as the leaders of our nation were, they were equally arrogant,
and especially when it came to ridding themselves of undesired, because
unpleasant, prophets. We were treated to- the spectacle (as we still are
today!) of the greatest parliamentary thick-heads, regular saddlers and
glovemakers-and not only by profession, which in itself means nothing-suddenly
setting themselves on the pedestal of statesmen, from which they could lecture
down at plain ordinary mortals. It had and has nothing to do with the case
that such a ' statesman ' by the sixth month of his activity is shown up
as the most incompetent windbag, the butt of everyone's ridicule and contempt,
that he doesn't know which way to turn and has provided unmistakable proof
of his total incapacity ! No, that makes no difference, on the contrary:
the more lacking the parliamentary statesmen of this Republic are in real
accomplishment, the more furiously they persecute those who expect accomplishments
from them, who have the audacity to point out the failure of their previous
activity and predict the failure of their future moves. But if once you
finally pin down one of these parliamentary honorables, and this political
showman really cannot deny the collapse of his whole activity and its results
any longer, they find thousands and thousands of grounds for excusing their
lack of success, and there is only one that they will not admit, namely,
that they themselves are the main cause of all evil.By the winter of 1922-23, at the latest, it should have been
generally understood that even after the conclusion of peace France was
still endeavoring with iron logic to achieve the war aim she had originally
had in mind. For no one will be likely to believe that France poured out
the blood of her people- never too rich to begin with-for four and a half
years in the most decisive struggle of her history, only to have the damage
previously done made good by subsequent reparations. Even Alsace-Lorraine
in itself would not explain the energy with which the French carried on
the War, if it had not been a part of French foreign policy's really great
political program for the future. And this goal is: the dissolution of Germany
into a hodge-podge of little states. That is what chauvinistic France fought
for, though at the same time in reality it sold its people as mercenaries
to the international world Jew.
<U+00A0>This French war aim would have been attainable by the War alone if,
as Paris had first hoped, the struggle had taken place on German soil. Suppose
that the bloody battles of the World War had been fought, not on the Somme,
in Flanders, in Artois, before Warsaw, Nijni-Novgorod, Kovno, Riga, and
all the other places, but in Germany, on the Ruhr and the Main, on the Elbe,
at Hanover, Leipzig, Nuremberg, etc., and you will have to agree that this
would have offered a possibility of breaking up Germany. It is very questionable
whether our young federative state could for four and a half years have
survived the same test of strain as rigidly centralized France, oriented
solely toward her uncontested center in Paris. The fact that this gigantic
struggle of nations occurred outside the borders of our fatherland was not
only to the immortal credit of the old army, it was also the greatest good
fortune for the German future. It is my firm and heartfelt conviction, and
sometimes almost a source of anguish to me, that otherwise there would long
since have been no German Reich, but only ' German states.' And this is
the sole reason why the blood of our fallen friends and brothers has at
least not Bowed entirely in vain.Thus everything turned out differently! True, Germany collapsed
like a flash in November, 1918. But when the catastrophe occurred in the
homeland, our field armies were still deep in enemy territory. The first
concern of France at that time was not the dissolution of Germany, but:
How shall we get the German armies out of France and Belgium as quickly
as possible? And so the first task of the heads of state in Paris for concluding
the World War was to disarm the German armies and if possible drive them
back to Germany at once; and only after that could they devote themselves
to the fulfillment of their real and original war aim. In this respect,
to be sure, France was already paralyzed. For England the War had really
been victoriously concluded with the annihilation of Germany as a colonial
and commercial power and her reduction to the rank of a second-class state.
Not only did the English possess no interest in the total extermination
of the German state; they even had every reason to desire a rival against
France in Europe for the future. Hence the French political leaders had
to continue with determined peacetime labor what the War had begun, and
Clemenceau's utterance, that for him the peace was only the continuation
of the War, took on an increased significance.Persistently, on every conceivable occasion, they had to shatter
the structure of the Reich. By the imposition of one disarmament note after
another, on the one hand, and by the economic extortion thus made possible,
on the other hand, Paris hoped slowly to disjoint the Reich structure. The
more rapidly national honor withered away in Germany, the sooner could economic
pressure and unending poverty lead to destructive political effects. Such
a policy of political repression and economic plunder, carried on for ten
or twenty years, must gradually ruin even the best state structure and under
certain circumstances dissolve it. And thereby the French war aim would
finally be achieved.By the winter of 1922-23 this must long since have been recognized
as the French intent. Only two possibilities remained: We might hope gradually
to blunt the French will against the tenacity of the German nation, or at
long last to do what would have to be done in the end anyway, to pull the
helm of the Reich ship about on some particularly crass occasion, and ram
the enemy. This, to be sure, meant a life-and-death struggle, and there
existed a prospect of life only if previously we succeeded in isolating
France to such a degree that this second war would not again constitute
a struggle of Germany against the world, but a defense of Germany against
a France which was constantly disturbing the world and its peace.I emphasize the fact, and I am firmly convinced of it, that
this second eventuality must and will some day occur, whatever happens.
I never believe that France's intentions toward us could ever change, for
in the last analysis they are merely in line with the self-preservation
of the French nation. If I were a Frenchman, and if the greatness of France
were as dear to me as that of Germany is sacred, I could not and would not
act any differently from Clemenceau. The French nation, slowly dying out,
not only with regard to population, but particularly with regard to its
best racial elements, can in the long run retain its position in the world
only if Germany is shattered. French policy may pursue a thousand detours;
somewhere in the end there will be this goal, the fulfillment of ultimate
desires and deepest longing. And it is false to believe that a purely passive
will, desiring only to preserve itself, can for any length of time resist
a will that is no less powerful, but proceeds actively. As long as the eternal
conflict between Germany and France is carried on only in the form of a
German defense against French aggression, it will never be decided, but
from year to year, from century to century, Germany will lose one position
after another. Follow the movements of the German language frontier beginning
with the twelfth century until today, and you will hardly be able to count
on the success of an attitude and a development which has done us so much
damage up till now.Only when this is fully understood in Germany, so that the vital
will of the German nation is no longer allowed to languish in purely passive
defense, but is pulled together for a final active reckoning with France
and thrown into a last decisive struggle with the greatest ultimate aims
on the German side- only then will we be able to end the eternal and essentially
so fruitless struggle between ourselves and France; presupposing, of course,
that Germany actually regards the destruction of France as only a means
which will afterward enable her finally to give our people the expansion
made possible elsewhere. Today we count eighty million Germans in Europe!
This foreign policy will be acknowledged as correct only if, after scarcely
a hundred years, there are two hundred and fifty million Germans on this
continent, and not living penned in as factory coolies for the rest of the
world, but: as peasants and workers, who guarantee each other's livelihood
by their labor.In December, 1922, the situation between Germany and France
again seemed menacingly exacerbated. France was contemplating immense new
extortions, and needed pledges for them. The economic pillage had to be
preceded by a political pressure and it seemed to the French that only a
violent blow at the nerve center of our entire German life would enable
them to subject our 'recalcitrant' people to a sharper yoke. With the occupation
of the Roar, the French hoped not only to break the moral backbone of Germany
once and for all, but to put us into an embarrassing economic situation
in which, whether we liked it or not, we would have to assume every obligation,
even the heaviest.It was a question of bending and breaking. Germany bent at the
very outset, and ended up by breaking completely later.With the occupation of the Ruhr, Fate once again held out a
hand to help the German people rise again. For what at the first moment
could not but seem a great misfortune embraced on closer inspection an infinitely
promising opportunity to terminate all German misery.From the standpoint of foreign relations, the occupation of
the Ruhr for the first time really alienated England basically from France,
and not only in the circles of British diplomacy which had concluded, examined,
and maintained the French alliance as such only with the sober eye of cold
calculators, but also in the broadest circles of the English people. The
English economy in particular viewed with ill-concealed displeasure this
new and incredible strengthening of French continental power. For not only
that France, from the purely politico-military point of view, now assumed
a position in Europe such as previously not even Germany had possessed,
but, economically as well, she now obtained economic foundations which almost
combined a position of economic monopoly with her capacity for political
competition. The largest iron mines and coal fields in Europe were thus
united in the hands of a nation which, in sharp contrast to Germany, had
always defended its vital interests with equal determination and activism,
and which in the Great War had freshly reminded the whole world of its military
reliability. With the occupation of the Ruhr coal fields by France, England's
entire gain through the War was wrested from her hands, and the victor was
no longer British diplomacy so industrious and alert, but Marshal Foch and
the France he represented.In Italy, too, the mood against France, which, since the end
of the War, had been by no means rosy to begin with, shifted to a veritable
hatred. It was the great, historical moment in which the allies of former
days could become the enemies of tomorrow. If things turned out differently
and the allies did not, as in the second Balkan War, suddenly break into
a sudden feud among themselves, this was attributable only to the circumstance
that Germany simply had no Enver Pasha, but a Reich Chancellor Cuno.Yet not only from the standpoint of foreign policy, but of domestic
policy as well, the French assault on the Ruhr held great future potentialities
for Germany. A considerable part of our people which, thanks to the incessant
influence of our lying press, still regarded France as the champion of progress
and liberalism, was abruptly cured of this lunatic delusion. Just as the
year 1914 had dispelled the dreams of international solidarity between peoples
from the heads of our German workers and led them suddenly back into the
world of eternal struggle, throughout which one being feeds on another and
the death of the weaker means the life of the stronger, the spring of 1923
did likewise.When the Frenchman carried out his threats and finally, though
at first cautiously and hesitantly, began to move into the lower German
coal district, a great decisive hour of destiny had struck for Germany.
If in this moment our people combined a change of heart with a shift in
their previous attitude, the Ruhr could become a Napoleonic Moscow for France.
There were only two possibilities: Either we stood for this new offense
and did nothing, or, directing the eyes of the German people to this land
of glowing smelters and smoky furnaces, we inspired them with a glowing
will to end this eternal disgrace and rather take upon themselves the terrors
of the moment than bear an endless terror one moment longer.To have discovered a third way was the immortal distinction
of Reich Chancellor Cuno, to have admired it and gone along, the still more
glorious distinction of our German bourgeois parties.Here I shall first examine the second course as briefly as possible.With the occupation of the Ruhr, France had accomplished a conspicuous
breach of the Versailles Treaty. In so doing, she had also put herself in
conflict with a number of signatory powers, and especially with England
and Italy. France could no longer hope for any support on the part of these
states for her own selfish campaign of plunder: She herself, therefore,
had to bring the adventure-and that is what it was at first-to some happy
conclusion. For a national German government there could be but a single
course, that which honor prescribed. It was certain that for the present
France could not be opposed by active force of arms; but we had to realize
clearly that any negotiations, unless backed by power, would be absurd and
fruitless. Without the possibility of active resistance, it was absurd to
adopt the standpoint: 'We shall enter into no negotiations'; but it was
even more senseless to end by entering into negotiations after all, without
having meanwhile equipped ourselves with power.Not that we could have prevented the occupation of the Ruhr
by military measures. Only a madman could have advised such a decision.
But utilizing the impression made by this French action and while it was
being carried out, what we absolutely should have done was, without regard
for the Treaty of Versailles which France herself had torn up, to secure
the military resources with which we could later have equipped our negotiators.
For it was clear from the start that one day the question of this territory
occupied by France would be settled at some conference table. But we had
to be equally clear on the fact that even the best negotiators can achieve
little success, as long as the ground on which they stand and the chair
on which they sit is not the shield arm of their nation. A feeble little
tailor cannot argue with athletes, and a defenseless negotiator has always
suffered the sword of Brennus on the opposing side of the scale, unless
he had his own to throw in as a counterweight. Or has it not been miserable
to watch the comic-opera negotiations which since 1918 have always preceded
the repeated dictates? This degrading spectacle presented to the whole world,
first inviting us to the conference table, as though in mockery, then presenting
us with decisions and programs prepared long before, which, to be sure,
could be discussed, but which from the start could only be regarded as unalterable.
It is true that our negotiators, in hardly a single case, rose above the
most humble average, and for the most part justified only too well the insolent
utterance of Lloyd George, who contemptuously remarked, a propos of former
Reich Minister Simon, ' that the Germans didn't know how to choose men of
intelligence as their leaders and representatives.' But even geniuses, in
view of the enemy's determined will to power and the miserable defenselessness
of our own people in every respect, would have achieved but little.But anyone who in the spring of 1923 wanted to make France's
occupation of the Ruhr an occasion for reviving our military implements
of power had first to give the nation its spiritual weapons, strengthen
its will power, and destroy the corrupters of this most precious national
strength.Just as in 1918 we paid with our blood for the fact that in
1914 and 1915 we did not proceed to trample the head of the Marxist serpent
once and for all, we would have to pay most catastrophically if in the spring
of 1923 we did not avail ourselves of the opportunity to halt the activity
of the Marxist traitors and murderers of the nation for good.Any idea of real resistance to France was utter nonsense if
we did not declare war against those forces which five years before had
broken German resistance on the battlefields from within. Only bourgeois
minds can arrive at the incredible opinion that Marxism might now have changed,
and that the scoundrelly leaders of 1918, who then coldly trampled two million
dead underfoot, the better to climb into the various seats of government,
now in 1923 were suddenly ready to render their tribute to the national
conscience. An incredible and really insane idea, the hope that the traitors
of former days would suddenly turn into fighters for a German freedom. It
never entered their heads. No more than a hyena abandons carrion does a
Marxist abandon treason. And don't annoy me, if you please, with the stupidest
of all arguments, that, after all, so many workers bled for Germany. German
workers, yes, but then they were no longer international Marxists. If in
1914 the German working class in their innermost convictions had still consisted
of Marxists, the War would have been over in three weeks. Germany would
have collapsed even before the first soldier set foot across the border.
No, the fact that the German people was then still fighting proved that
the Marxist delusion had not yet been able to gnaw its way into the bottommost
depths. But in exact proportion as, in the course of the War, the German
worker and the German soldier fell back into the hands of the Marxist leaders,
in exactly that proportion he was lost to the fatherland. If at the beginning
of the War and during the War twelve or fifteen thousand of these Hebrew
corrupters of the people had been held under poison gas, as happened to
hundreds of thousands of our very best German workers in the field, th sacrifice
of millions at the front would not have been in vain. On the contrary: twelve
thousand scoundrels eliminated in time might have saved the lives of a million
real Germans, valuable for the future. But it just happened to be in the
line of bourgeois 'statesmanship' to subject millions to a bloody end on
the battlefield without batting an eyelash, but to regard ten or twelve
thousand traitors, profiteers, usurers, and swindlers as a sacred national
treasure and openly proclaim their inviolability. We never know which is
greater in this bourgeois world, the imbecility, weakness, and cowardice,
or their deep-dyed corruption. It is truly a class doomed by Fate, but unfortunately,
however, it is dragging a whole nation with it into the abyss.And in 1923 we faced exactly the same situation as in 1918.
Regardless what type of resistance was decided on, the first requirement
was always the elimination of the Marxist poison from our national body.
And in my opinion, it was then the very first task of a truly national government
to seek and find the forces which were resolved to declare a war of annihilation
on Marxism, and then to give these forces a free road; it was their duty
not to worship the idiocy of 'law and order' at a moment when the enemy
without was administering the most annihilating blow to the fatherland and
at home treason lurked on every street corner. No, at that time a really
national government should have desired disorder and unrest, provided only
that amid the confusion a basic reckoning with Marxism at last became possible
and actually took place. If this were not done, any thought of resistance,
regardless of what type, was pure madness.Such a reckoning of real world-historical import, it must be
admitted, does not follow the schedules of a privy councilor or some dried-up
old minister, but the eternal laws of life on this earth, which are the
struggle for this life and which remain struggle. It should have been borne
in mind that the bloodiest civil wars have often given rise to a steeled
and healthy people, while artificially cultivated states of peace have more
than once produced a rottenness that stank to high Heaven. You do not alter
the destinies of nations in kid gloves. And so, in the year 1923, the most
brutal thrust was required to seize the vipers that were devouring our people.
Only if this were successful did the preparation of active resistance have
meaning.At that time I often talked my throat hoarse, attempting to
make it clear, at least to the so-called national circles, what was now
at stake, and that, if we made the same blunders as in 1914 and the years
that followed, the end would inevitably be the same as in 1918. Again and
again, I begged them to give free rein to :Pate, and to give our movement
an opportunity for a reckoning with Marxism; but I preached to deaf ears.
They all knew better, including the chief of the armed forces, until at
length they faced the most wretched capitulation of all time.Then I realized in my innermost.soul that the German bourgeoisie
was at the end of its mission and is destined for no further mission. Then
I saw how all these parties continued to bicker with the Marxists only out
of competitors' envy, without any serious desire to annihilate them; at
heart they had all of them long since reconciled themselves to the destruction
of the fatherland, and what moved them was only grave concern that they
themselves should be able to partake in the funeral feast. That is all they
were still 'fighting' for.In this period-I openly admit-I conceived the profoundest admiration
for the great man south of the Alps, who, full of ardent love for his people,
made no pacts with the enemies of Italy, but strove for their annihilation
by all ways and means. What will rank Mussolini among the great men of this
earth is his determination not to share Italy with the Marxists, but to
destroy internationalism and save the fatherland from it.How miserable and dwarfish our German would-be statesmen seem
by comparison, and how one gags with disgust when these nonentities, with
boorish arrogance, dare to criticize this man who is a thousand times greater
than they; and how painful it is to think that this is happening in a land
which barely half a century ago could call a Bismarck its leader.In view of this attitude on the part of the bourgeoisie and
the policy of leaving the Marxists untouched, the fate of any active resistance
in 1923 was decided in advance. To fight France with the deadly enemy in
our own ranks would have been sheer idiocy. What was done after that could
at most be shadow-boxing, staged to satisfy the nationalistic element in
Germany in some measure, or in reality to dupe the 'seething soul of the
people.' If they had seriously believed in what they were doing, they would
have had to recognize that the strength of a nation lies primarily, not
in its weapons, but in its will, and that, before foreign enemies are conquered,
the enemy within must be annihilated; otherwise God help us if victory does
not reward our arms on the very first day. Once so much as the shadow of
a defeat grazes a people that is not free of internal enemies, its force
of resistance will break and the foe will be the final victor.This could be predicted as early as February, 1923. Let no one
mention the questionableness of a military success against France ! For
if the result of the German action in the face of the invasion of the Ruhr
had only been the destruction of Marxism at home, by that fact alone success
would have been on our side. A Germany saved from these mortal enemies of
her existence and her future would possess forces which the whole world
could no longer have stifled. On the day when Marxism is smashed in Germany,
her fetters wig in truth be broken forever. For never in our history have
we been defeated by the strength of our foes, but always by our own vices
and by the enemies in our own camp.Since the leaders of the German state could not summon up the
courage for such a heroic deed, logically they could only have chosen the
first course, that of doing nothing at all and letting things slide.But in the great hour Heaven sent the German people a great
man, Herr von Cuno. He was not really a statesman or a politician by profession,
and of course still less by birth; he was a kind of political hack, who
was needed only for the performance of certain definite jobs; otherwise
he was really more adept at business. A curse for Germany, because this
businessman in politics regarded politics as an economic enterprise and
acted accordingly.'France has occupied the Ruhr; what is in the Ruhr? Coal. Therefore,
France has occupied the Ruhr on account of the coal.' What was more natural
for Herr Cuno than the idea of striking in order that the French should
get no coal, whereupon, in the opinion of Herr Cuno, they would one day
evacuate the Ruhr when the enterprise proved unprofitable. Such, more or
less, was this 'eminent"national"statesman,' who in Stuttgart
and elsewhere was allowed to address his people, and whom the people gaped
at in blissful admiration.But for a strike, of course, the Marxists were needed, for it
was primarily the workers who would have to strike. Therefore, it was necessary
to bring the worker (and in the brain of one of these bourgeois statesman
he is always synonymous with the Marxist) into a united front with all the
other Germans. The way these moldy political party cheeses glowed at the
sound of such a brilliant slogan was something to behold! Not only a product
of genius, it was national at the same time-there at last they had what
at heart they had been seeking the whole while. The bridge to Marxism had
been found, and the national swindler was enabled to put on a Teutonic face
and mouth German phrases while holding out a friendly hand to the international
traitor. And the traitor seized it with the utmost alacrity. For just as
Cuno needed the Marxist leaders for his 'united front,' the Marxist leaders
were just as urgently in need of Cuno's money. So it was a help to both
parties. Cuno obtained his united front, formed of national windbags and
anti-national scoundrels, and the international swindlers received state
funds to carry out the supreme mission of their struggle-that is, to destroy
the national economy, and this time actually at the expense of the state.
An immortal idea, to save the nation by buying a general strike; in any
case a slogan in which even the most indifferent good-fornothing could join
with full enthusiasm.It is generally known that a nation cannot be made free by prayers.
But maybe one could be made free by sitting with folded arms, and that had
to be historically tested. If at that time Berr Cuno, instead of proclaiming
his subsidized general strike and setting it up as the foundation of the
'united front,' had only demanded two more hours of work from every German,
the 'united front' swindle would have shown itself up on the third day.
Peoples are not freed by doing nothing, but by sacrifices..To be sure, this so-called passive resistance as such could
not be maintained for long. For only a man totally ignorant of warfare could
imagine that occupying armies can be frightened away by such ridiculous
means. And that alone could have been the sense of an action the costs of
which ran into billions and which materially helped to shatter the national
currency to its very foundations.Of course, the French could make themselves at home in the Ruhr
with a certain sense of inner relief as soon as they saw the resisters employing
such methods. They had in fact obtained from us the best directions for
bringing a recalcitrant civilian population to reason when its conduct represents
a serious menace to the occupation authorities. With what lightning speed,
after all, we had routed the Belgian franc-tireur bands nine years previous
and made the seriousness of the situation clear to the civilian population
when the German armies ran the risk of incurring serious damage from their
activity. As soon as the passive resistance in the Ruhr had grown really
dangerous to the French, it would have been child's play for the troops
of occupation to put a cruel end to the whole childish mischief in less
than a week. For the ultimate question is always this: What do we do if
the passive resistance ends by really getting on an adversary's nerves and
he takes up the struggle against it with brutal strong-arm methods? Are
we then resolved to offer further resistance? If so, we must for better
or worse invite the gravest, bloodiest persecutions. But then we stand exactly
where active resistance would put us - face to Mace with struggle. Hence
any so-called passive resistance has an inner meaning only if it is backed
by determination to continue it if necessary in open struggle or in undercover
guerrilla warfare. In general, any such struggle will depend on a conviction
that success is possible. As soon as a besieged fortress under heavy attack
by the enemy is forced to abandon the last hope of relief, for all practical
purposes it gives up the fight, especially when in such a case the defender
is lured by the certainty of life rather than probable death. Rob the garrison
of a surrounded fortress of faith in a possible liberation, and all the
forces of defense will abruptly collapse.Therefore, a passive resistance in the Ruhr, in view of the
ultimate consequences it could and inevitably would produce in case it were
actually successful, only had meaning if an active front were built up behind
it. Then, it is true, there is no limit to what could have been drawn from
our people. If every one of these Westphalians had known that the homeland
was setting up an army of eighty or a hundred divisions, the Frenchmen would
have found it thorny going. There are always more courageous men willing
to sacrifice themselves for success than for something that is obviously
futile.It was a classical case which forced us National Socialists
to take the sharpest position against a so-called national slogan. And so
we did. In these months I was attacked no little by men whose whole national
attitude was nothing but a mixture of stupidity and outward sham, all of
whom joined in the shouting only because they were unable to resist the
agreeable thrill of suddenly being able to put on national airs without
any danger. I regarded this most lamentable of all united fronts as a most
ridiculous phenomenon, and history has proved me right.As soon as the unions had filled their treasuries with Cuno's
funds, and the passive resistance was faced with the decision of passing
from defense with folded arms to active attack, the Red hyenas immediately
bolted from the national sheep herd and became again what they had always
been. Quietly and ingloriously Herr Cuno retreated to his ships, and Germany
was richer by one experience and poorer by one great hope.Down to late midsummer many officers, and they were assuredly
not the worst, had at heart not believed in such a disgraceful development.
They had all hoped that, if not openly, in secret at least, preparations
had been undertaken to make this insolent French assault a turning point
in German history. Even in our ranks there were many who put their confidence
at least in the Reichswehr. And this conviction was so alive that it decisively
determined the actions and particularly the training of innumerable young
people.But when the disgraceful collapse occurred and the crushing,
disgraceful capitulation followed, the sacrifice of billions of marks and
thousands of young Germans-who had been stupid enough to take the promises
of the Reich's leaders seriously- indignation flared into a blaze against
such a betrayal of our unfortunate people. In millions of minds the conviction
suddenly arose bright and clear that only a radical elimination of the whole
ruling system could save Germany.Never was the time riper, never did it cry out more imperiously
for such a solution than in the moment when, on the one hand, naked treason
shamelessly revealed itself, while, on the other hand, a people was economically
delivered to slow starvation. Since the state itself trampled all laws of
loyalty and faith underfoot, mocked the rights of its citizens, cheated
millions of its truest sons of their sacrifices and robbed millions of others
of their last penny, it had no further right to expect anything but hatred
of its subjects. And in any event, this hatred against the spoilers of people
and fatherland was pressing toward an explosion. In this place I can only
point to the final sentence of my last speech in the great trial of spring,
1924:'The judges of this state may go right ahead and convict us
for our actions at that time, but History, acting as the goddess of a higher
truth and a higher justice, will one day smilingly tear up this verdict,
acquitting us of all guilt and blame.'And then she will call all those before her judgment seat, who
today, in possession of power, trample justice and law underfoot, who have
led our people into misery and ruin and amid the misfortune of the fatherland
have valued their own ego above the life of the community.In this place I shall not continue with an account of those
events which led to and brought about the 8th of November, 1923. I shall
not do so because in so doing I see no promise for the future, and because
above all it is useless to reopen wounds that seem scarcely healed; moreover,
because it is useless to speak of guilt regarding men who in the bottom
of their hearts, perhaps, were all devoted to their nation with equal love,
and who only missed or failed to understand the common road.In view of the great common misfortune of our fatherland, I
today no longer wish to wound and thus perhaps alienate those who one day
in the future will have to form the great united front of those who are
really true Germans at heart against the common front of the enemies of
our people. For I know that some day the time will come when even those
who then faced us with hostility, will think with veneration of those who
traveled the bitter road of death for their German people.I wish at the end of the second volume to remind the supporters
and champions of our doctrine of those eighteen I heroes, to whom I have
dedicated the first volume of my work, those heroes who sacrificed themselves
for us all with the clearest consciousness. They must forever recall the
wavering and the weak to the fulfillment of his duty, a duty which they
themselves in the best faith carried to its final consequence. And among
them I want also to count that man, one of the best, who devoted his life
to the awakening of his, our people, in his writings and his thoughts and
finally in his deeds:
ConclusionON NOVEMBER 9, 1923, in the fourth year of its existence, the
National Socialist German Workers' Party was dissolved and prohibited in
the whole Reich territory. Today in November, 1926, it stands again free
before us, stronger and inwardly firmer than ever before.All the persecutions of the movement and its individual leaders,
all vilifications and slanders, were powerless to harm it. The correctness
of its ideas, the purity of its will, its supporters' spirit of self-sacrifice,
have caused it to issue from all repressions stronger than ever.If, in the world of our present parliamentary corruption, it
becomes more and more aware of the profoundest essence of its struggle,
feels itself to be the purest embodiment of the value of race and personality
and conducts itself accordingly, it will with almost mathematical certainty
some day emerge victorious from its struggle. Just as Germany must inevitably
win her rightful position on this earth if she is led and organized according
to the same principles.A state which in this age of racial poisoning dedicates itself
to the care of its best racial elements must some day become lord of the
earth.May the adherents of our movement never forget this if ever
the magnitude of the sacrifices should beguile them to an anxious comparison
with the possible results.
